#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\headheight 3cm
\headsep 3cm
\footskip 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Abstract
Problems of asymmetric information mean that risk sharing networks are imperfect
 in rural developing countries
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Risk Sharing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
An Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The idea that probability of a payoff affects decisions was first proposed
 by.
 Risk of outcome is used in more liquid markets - is still used in the financial
 markets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are obvious limits to risk-sharing - the practical considerations
 in a particular context limit the realization of a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

risk arbitrage
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 opportunity.
 The market failures and the kinds of risks (political risk, currency risk)
 are both varied and high in the developing countries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Risk Sharing in Labour Markets
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The particular case we're concerned with is that in labour markets.
 Given that rural sector is the key employer in the developing countries
 and the natural of rural employment is quite labour-intensive, an analysis
 of agricultural labour market covers a significant part of economy.
 In terms of the Lewis-Rani-Fei model, the process of urbanization itself
 is tied with the development of labour market in the development countries.
 Hence, risks in the labour market can affect the wages in the rural sector
 (if workers take a lot of risk then their productivity is affected - whereas
 if employers take a lot of risk, then the labour wages are lowered).
 The decline in wages of rural sector might as well be in interest of the
 urban sector (see notes on the political conflicts resulting from taxation
 and subsidies-related pressures on the government).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Nature of Risk in a Developing Economy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Recent and Historical trends in Payoffs Volatilities
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Agriculture is inevitably more technological than it once was.
 As both the volatility of the agricultural payoff as well as the per-capita
 income from all means typically improve in a politically stable developing
 economy, one would expect that the need for risk-sharing would reduce over
 time.
 However, as such, the need for risk-sharing is quite high in these markets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The need for Risk Management
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Credit is inevitably needed for investment.
 The credit facilities offered by the government would hardly trickle down
 to grass-root levels.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Risk Mitigation Measures in a Developing Economy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Insurance Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Reasons of Failure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Information Asymmetry is a key problem.
 Screening can help.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
