#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Americanism 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Last week I was amused by a protest.
 The optimism that such revolutionism inspires seems innocent and pure.
 I have always had my doubts on whether such youthfulness is based on any
 reality or it achieves anythinga.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That is not to say that I myself am not a victim of American.
 I was here when Brexit happened - and although I allowed to vote for the
 referendum (as a colonial - however contumacious), I care less for it than
 I did about the US election.
 Somehow we believe that Trump affects everybody in the world - more than
 our local or even national politicians.
 When the power is taken away, we fall victims to a sort of Stockholm syndrome
 rejoicing over petty victories by skirmishing a by a distant and unchallenged
 power.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I would thus admit that having spent my youth in the US, I always felt American.
 Not having citizenship (being unwilling to go through the long, tenuous
 and bureaucratic process of immigration) didn't prevent me from first opining
 and later pining over the US elections.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What saddens me the most though is that other than one Taxi driver who didn't
 mind playing Rush Limbaugh loud while I was in, I never met anybody who
 I think would have voted for Trump.
 New York is indeed different from the rest of the country - it is microcosm
 where business needs overlapped with personal needs can create a hope so
 immense in the order of captialism- that one forgets that any other order
 has ever existed.
 Only 10 % of Manhattan is said to have voted for him - and yet I find very
 unlikely that I never ran into a supporter - who himself appeared as a
 liberal Manhattanite while I was in New York.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Both Brexit and There are limits to free trade.
 It is just that it takes a long time for the centre to realize what's truly
 wrong with the system that was secreated.
 It only takes a few more stop on 2/3 line to get to a world of deprivation
 that the historically disadvantaged uptown Manhattan is.
 We all have an optimism bias.
 This liberal feeling of everything having been lost with Brexit and Trump
 victory is just a rationalist reminder of the optimism bias.
 What led to Brext and the Trump's victory is part of a process that was
 at work at least since the Reagan era.
 The working and middles class wages were stagnant and their earlier securities
 were declining.
 Their dissent was subject to politcal correctenss of identity politics
 and post-colonial settlements.
 These processes are still at work and not likely to be changed either with
 Trump's victory or loss.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Social media and 140 character activism has both fueled this disconnection
 and caused this sadness.
 This feeling of helplessness is a familiar to many of us.
 For me, this has to do with being born in a colony not long ago and becoming
 part of a movement to destroy the native culture - has created a shared
 guilt amongst the rising middle classes.
 We have a bias of connecting anything wrong with - much the way anyone
 speaking against immigrants or coloured people is connected with the Fuhrer.
 It's just how experiences project themselves.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While I speak in English, I am fully conscious of the realities in the developin
g countries where millions have nothing else but a hope for a foreign language
 - and institutions to look up to.
 As someone who has never truly disconnected myself from this state of misery,
 it is relatively easy for me to constantly doubt the moral superiority
 of the civilised world.
 That Trump would be a lot worse, doesn't scare me a lot.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That is not to say that Trump would be just OK.
 While I might not agree with Simon Schama that this is indeed the next
 Hitler, there are plenty of reasons to revolt against what Trump and Brexit
 supporters are enthused with.
 As some Brexiters jeer, mock and sometimes even murder Polish immigrants,
 the attacks against blacks and recent immigrants too might get intensified.
 Yet it is difficult to weave this into a common theme - a resurgence of
 fascism - the way liberal media is bent upon proving.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Polish are Caucasian in the US and the old immigrants - Blacks and Indians
 don't want new immigrants.
 As a coloured man having lived in both the countries, I know that there
 doesn't exist a common theme in the microaggressions that I have faced
 in the two countries.
 Indians have lived in the UK for a few hundred years, the biggest wave
 of migration having started after 60s when the collapse of the empire really
 started kicking.
 The post-colonial fervor of nationhood gave way to economic realities of
 overpopulation and lack of basic institutions.
 With no real colonies, the US never had a way to integrate the - and thus
 it ventured on an unprecedented journey of the civil rights movement.
 This wasn't welcome at all - in fact even violently opposed in the less
 industrialized parts of the US.
 At about the same time, UK's industries too were declining - the conflict
 between the colonials and the oppressor was being internalized amidst trade
 unionism and the upper class which had ruled England for centuries.
 Indians were unwelcome in the UK at a time where they were becoming model
 immigrants in the US.
 I won't tell you which one is better - we're into an age of uncertainty
 - where .
 People are tired of experts, Brexit means Brexit and merits of a Trumpian
 unpredictability are hailed as a deal winner.
 What's certain is that this is not the first time it has happened.
 Those who are bound to compare Trump's victory with rise of Hitler, must
 know that holocaust itself had just too many precedents.
 Coloured people lived their lives and died - and many still do with poor
 access to education and health and have survived.
 If Trump supporters want to bring back the conflict, it would only make
 way for a better conversation.
 Call it the optimism bias, but that's how we humans have worked for ages.
 In summary there are two points that I need remind myself and those around
 me - i) our disconnection from reality would continue to be a problem -
 we pool our smaller risks but our susceptibilty to higher risks increases
 through the same process and ii) this disconnection from the hard-work
 of reading and understanding individual human beings, cultures, ideologies
 exposes us to theories of wide generalizations - Indians in the UK and
 US are not the same and even within India not all Indians are the same
 - India was not even a country before British united them.
 Chinese have united and disunited over thousands of years and a commong
 language amongst them is only half a cenutry old.
 Likewise, northern Italians didn't speak Italian well after WWII while
 the Flemish and the Catalans continue to fight.
 These imperfections can be easily generalsed as West vs the East - civilized
 vs the uncivilized - whites vs moors and yellow perils.
 We live in a world more suspectible to these generalisations - not less.
 The colonial world was one where such massive control over the peoples
 was not possible.
 There is nothin else that worries me more - not Trump - not Brexit - the
 worse option is that none of them happen and we continue to ignore these
 problems that affect our daily lives.
 Optimism bias is inherent in all our dealings.
 I had following the polls - and continued to be dismayed that they were
 so uncertain.
 Just the week before the election day (Nov 8), Florida, NC and PA were
 flip-flopping like an LED on fivethirtyeight.com (you would have known if
 you were anxiously glued to the website like I was).
 After the election, Nate Silver tweeted something that can well summarize
 our psychological biases.
 If we were told 30% probability of an earthquake we seem very perturbed.
 Yet, if we're told there is a 70% of no-earthquake, we become relieved.
 A hope in Hilary for most liberals was nothing more than this psychological
 bias.
 30% probability of getting a "bozo" (using Robert De Niro's words) was
 a pretty high chance and yet we comforted ourselves in thinking about the
 high chance of Hilary's victory.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
