#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The problem is that of demand.
 I have only understood demand so I would need to see how budget ratios
 compare in the two sides.
 The permanent income remains on the RHS - the measurement errors do get
 magnified with total expenditure being on both denominator and RHS - but
 that's not a major issue in this standard equation.
 Education facilities don't even exist in a lot of these places - so the
 control would need to be the supply issues of education.
 The issue is whether education participation exists or not.
 Cross-sectional effects can be studied.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have already seen the importance of private education in Nigeria.
 The paper https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1299921.pdf also notes that
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

the establishment of private universities in Nigeria was mainly due to the
 lack of capacity of public universities to accept students seeking admission
 to higher education institution
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 While this is only a side-note, it highlights the pressures implied on
 education.
 Since I don't have data on education enrollments, the transition from secondary
-to-tertiary cannot be studied in great detail in the paper.
 Universities are sensitive to how large the private sector is - whereas
 secondary education is less sensitive to the sprawling private education.
 Primary education is even less sensitive - because this is something provided
 universally (despite issues).
 We focus on demand - whether we households spend more or less on education.
 Households spending substantially less means that cultural factors may
 be important.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
.
 In so far as demand is concerned, the It's easiest to consider primary
 education alone - 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A couple of important points 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
There needs to be difference between enrollment rates and expenditure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
There are pros and cons of considering primary, secondary and tertiary education.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Primary education - this is down to government initiatives.
 Universal participation is desriable but quality differences become of
 high importance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Secondary education - My own view is one where secondary education is a
 ladder to tertiary education and tied with development and employment opportuni
ties.
 We can use employment opportunities from the LSMS data itself.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Section
Literature Survey
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
History of Nigeria
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
On private education - https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/EJ1299921.pdf
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Salihu et al., 2015 trace history of and quality of education in Nigeria.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Ahunanya and Osakwe (2012) suggested that most private universities prefer
 the southern region more due to the unavailability of a comprehensive education
 development link between both regions historically.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
On the desperate situation in Norther Nigeria - https://nairametrics.com/wp-conte
nt/uploads/2013/02/educational-imbalance-btwn-northern-southerm.pdf
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Fafunwa states that Islamic literacy was not a problem.
 So what does data capture.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
