#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
I haven't said anything about the Brexit.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Four years of quietness in the West London and in Oxfordshire have allowed
 me to explore my introverted side more than I thought was possible while
 I lived in the west side of Manhattan.
 While many would complain about the social exclusion of Indians and Pakistanis
 in the UK, I have interpreted this exclusion as the other side of European
 introversion and even relished my self-chosen escape from the opinions
 of crowds.
 Without TV, e-readers and any Apple gadget, I have rather miserably printed
 out PDFs to read on train.
 An interest in movies and taken up reading and traveling in ways that weren't
 imaginable in the Manhattan neighborhood I thought were on the top of the
 world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am reminded of America as a very different world - one which people in the OK
ridicule for guns and ignorance - and yet embrace ardently the music of. This is
confusing to me. With more than 10% of British Asians, I find it easier to slip
into the stereotype. In the US, I might be an Arab but here people know theirs
samosas and ganeshas pretty well and there is already a role for me to fit in. 
\end_layout


\begin_layout Standard

 Both as a colonial and an beholder of a 1000 year old civilization, it
 is easy for me to scoff at the lack of history in America - and its obsession
 with plastic beauties.
 Still, I am aware at all times that it is this disconnection from the past.
 Nietsche had said that people who can't forget things cannot reinvent themselve
s.
 Just know that America has nothing to remember beyond 18th century.
 You can't compete with that as an tiny island with memories of grandeur.
 

\begin_layout Standard
This just leaves a lot more playground to the brown man - to say the least.
 Everyday Americans don't need to be less or more racist when they have
 so much land and no conformance or respect for anything that is tied to
 the land.
 Even when they are - the best they can do - is to let others be.
 All that might slowly change if Trump is successful in what he has set
 himself up for.
 It is easy to indulge in scoffery, but American belief in hard-work and
 puritan ethic is probably as far-reaching than outward expanding Victorian
 Britain might have ever been.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The capitalist promise of social mobility in exchange of hard-work actually
 works in America and it is precisely that which Brexit wants to endanger.
Hume and Loki are still relevant in the US - while England attempts to 
globalize its image of Queens and medievalism.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The thought that someone having descended from Richard the III (Benedict
 Cumberbatch) is somehow interesting has no equivalent in the US.
 It is easy to point of economic and social inequality in America - but
 there is no conflict in the working classes. There are no working-class pubs
and posh bars. There are no posh neighborhoods. Whatever is upscale is acheivable
through money and the class mobility is achievable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

 As a brown man, a child growing up in suburbia doesn't grow up to consider himself Indian-Ameri
can - for the most past - he is just American.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is indeed an industrialist appeal to this.
 In Europe, an inward looking politics developed as an aftermath of loss
 of colonies and damages of two world wars - but rapid pace of industrialization
 created a class far more industrial than Europe had known before 1920s.
 Nationalism in the US seems to run on memories of Pilsbury and sticky sweet
 jellies - less often - if not as ferociously the legacy of literature.
 A country that doesn't have breathtaking rococo or cannons of literature
 to offer- it takes pride in industrial consumerism and ardent passions
 of TV shows - and even things more kitschy and unimporant - southerner's
 love for l oivermush or preference of pilsbury.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
 The English have hit a reset button.
 I don't think I have to worry about being deported to a concentration camp
 - just yet - because there the country that I was born in still hasn't
 forsaken me.
 Indeed there was a population with .
 But the handles of nuclear war and biological warfare - the mass-conflicts
 on the scale of holocaust driven by race would have far more devastating
 consequences.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What I do worry about is what has already happened due to globalization.
 Not all of us are reaping its benefits. As someone leading the much-maligned immigrant life in Europe,
I don't expect the world to get together by a bunch of nationalists vying to take their country back.

 It seems again that the crowds are running frenzy. The quiet side has given me more work to do and I get
myself busy.
=======
 Not all of us are reaping its benefits.
 much-maligned immigrant life in Europe).
 It seems again that the crowds are running frenzy.
 In the past months, refugees have axed and macheted and trouble youth have
 killed innocents.
 The mass-scale of things have not necessarily reduced the risks that multiply
 along with cost-savings.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To the buildup of this all, let me offer the disclaimer that I don't intend
 to speak on the subject except as anything other than a colonial.
 I have no desire to become British.
 A nationality is just a peice of paper for me - and I am in fact quite
 exasperated by the idea that someone having lived in a country for long
 or having descended from someone who have lived a few years longer than
 another person- should be treated entirely differently- demonized or extolled
 for no merit of his own.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I don't speak of history to ask for compensation either. I am not even in favour 
of foreign aid of any kind (William Easterly school
 of thought). I think offering equity in the developing world and investing to perfect
=======
 another person- should be treated entirely differently.
 There are fewer instances of stupidity that I know of - other than nationalism.
 It's the worst form of collectivism and danger to human liberty.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let me also say I don't speak of history to ask for compensation for colonialism.
 I am not even in favour of foreign aid of any kind (William Easterly school
 of thought).
 I think offering equity in the developing world and investing to perfect
 that system of equity is the correct way of progressing.
 I speak of history only to speak of the world around me that I had inherited.
 I don't bring up coloniak exploitation to play the race card or to garner
 sympathy or self-pity - but only to reflection on the world I live into.
 If the elite in India like to send their progeny to get back to their authority
 over India cemented through military power, or Indians find nothing wrong
 with skin-lightening products for both men and women - if French continue
 using the n-word for a ghostwriter in the modern day - it remains hardly
 a problem forgotten in history.
 These are very much modern problems.
 More importantly, it is hardly limited to the realsm of the British influence.
 Prefernce of fairer skinned Indians over darker-skinned Indians, of localized
 accents over thicker accents, and of English speakers and non-English spekers
 is not a matter of colonial history - it is very much a curent prejudice
 and needs to be understood as a current problem.
 One who was given this civilization without ever having made a conscious
 choice.
 The economic conditions which I was raised in weren't and the loss of instituti
ons that I witnessed with globalization weren't my choice either.
 I cannot remain excluded after all - our fortunes seem intertwined with
 each other.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We live in a mish-mash of ideas.
 There are a lot definitions that don't apply to me.
 I don't look for halal menu, I don't gather much gold, I love a good burger
 and drink more alcohol than my health permits. None of these are because of 
a conscious will to get integrated. These are things that an individual picks up
as he lives surrounded by ideas.
 I wish I knew many brownskinned people who were as enthusiastic about yoga.
 We already live in a confusion of ideas and identities - one that was originall
y positive side-effects of the empire.
 Brexit is a step in the opposite direction - not because of the economic
 implications but because of the kind of support that has led to this drastic
 attempt restore the English identity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To classify opinions as racist, xenophobic, stupid, fascist have been a
 characteristic of this debate on Brexit.
 Anyone who wants to leave the EU is siding with racists and anyone who
 wants to remain is a traitor and a europhile.
 This polarization is far worse than EU membership or lack of it can be.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ask a brown man what is racism and he would tell which amongst Germany,
 France and Britain is more racist.
 EU struggles in stopping racism in member countries at least as much as
 it does in solving other social problems of the member countries.
 Countries like Germany only warmed up to admitting migrants as full citizens
 after 1980s.
 Countries like Sweden continued to have faith in the.
 The problems in the UK have only worsened in the neo-liberal rise - racism
 is not the root cause - probably only a concious measure by the political
 powers to consolidate the support against a flailing Labour party.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On labour alone there remains a dangerous trend of tree-hugging that obliterates
 all sanity.
 When a young leftist was raped, she thought it was racist to put charges
 against the rapist.
 This is hardly a trend - but it is an instructive example of how badly
 can a political movement mess up basic human rights.
 Left-wing revolutionaries do not always run movements that lead to stable
 policies - nor even scraping the surface of real problems.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Labour economics has attempted to reinvent itself in the UK but Right wing
 economics is hardly serves as a working model.
 It is assumed that Adam Smith's principles would fire up the mobility engine
 and all social divisions would eventually disappear.
 But this didn't work well in Adam Smith's time - nor do they work perfectly
 well in our times.
 By taking a ski-vacation in Austria or a wine-tour in South Africa or France
 - you hardly do anything to stop racism ( in fact I can argue you only
 help an industry that survives on building exclusivity).
 Britain allowed brown doctors and gave nobel prizes to Indians at least
 half-a-decade before the American South would allow negroes in their universiti
es.
 There was no EU back.
 The mobility was granted based on Indian particiaption in the wars.
 The Muslims dominating the lower ranks is largely respnosible for the military
 obsessions of the modern Pakistan - whose formation itself was a British
 fantasy.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The choice that Macaulay made by training the locals in British ways instead
 of subjecting them to raw power - was by no means a popular choice (one
 British officer demanded that Macaulay be lynched for offering that the
 suggestion that Indians should share office with the British in colonial
 India) - but this developed as a disintinguishing character of British
 colonialism everywhere - unlike their Belgian, Dutch of French counterparts.
 The point I am trying to make is that being part of the EU or not being
 part of it has nothing to with countering racism.
 Being against racism requires far more commitment to rationality than waving
 a flag and I don't expect neither a European natonalist or its constituents
 to do it well.
 To say that everyone getting out of the EU is itself quite a stupid thing
 to say.
 Brown people don't look at East Germany or French countryside for racial
 equality.
 So let's use the r-word a bit more carefully.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The solution I think is going back to what unites us.
 The motivation of a united Europe is Calvin and Erasmus not Churchill or
 Machiavelli.
 It is ludicrous for some to claim that after getting out of EU, Britain
 would magically open itself up to the rest of the world.
 The campaign has shown that a lot of positives would be discarded.
 EU is not just about cheap Polish and Romanians stealing menial jobs from
 British working classes - but it is also about universities joining efforts
 and EU talent researching in each other's universities without having to
 go through myriad bureaucracies.
 Soon after the Brexit poll results came out - the dean of my university
 was sad about the results.
 His email assured EU students of their status and funding - and felt sad
 that he could have done to garner support from the student community.
 Getting out of EU may mean that the Neros and Costas in London might have
 more British workers - but they would also mean that they would server
 far less clients and might have far less jobs.
 In the end, if Britain comes out of its impending recessions, it would
 be based on business and the power would eventually align with a different
 set of players (if certain British banks would suffer then some other buy-side
 firms or foreign banks would take their place).
 Neither banking, nor finance nor the corporates going away with ticking
 box based in an act of frustration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This inward-looking mentality which the spirit of nationalism is known my
 most European intellectuals first hand and the memories of the second world
 war quite fresh in the minds.
 It was my grandfather who passed away last year who had told me about the
 polarization of politics in the post-war India.
 That delusions of grandeur eventually hit the economy is a lesson that
 Britain has taught to the rest of the world.
 I don't think Britain would spiral itself into the nationalistic fervour.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Bagehot column puts forth Orwell's quote of the British in a very accurate
 fashion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You dig down deeper and find that there is nothing more than shallow Trump-style
 tagging in this movement.
 We're calling each other stupid witout understand what we want.
 Germany doesn't allow.
 French still a ghostwriter - the banlieus of Paris present and a ghetto
 that Harlem residents would find more discriminating.
 To think that by being in the EU, Britain .
 Let's get it right - Britain has more to offer to the EU than it takes
 - so let's think about a fair deal not the bullying and browbeating that
 British media has engaged.
 Muslims, browns and Poles are routinely mocked and discriminated.
 If Brexit is in news, then it comes part of the abuse that goes on.
 There are many like me who would like to avoid getting anybody get political
 mileage out of this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most of my friends in the UK are from central Europe (Italians more often
 - partly because we share the similar regional faultlines and a Protestant
 obsession with money) - to think that they'll have to leave is an unspeakable
 loss.
 However, considerin that they did want to return to Italy (many of them
 have).
 If we are forging a society where Europeans are to be made to feel inferior
 - then I wonder what kind of world.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
