#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3.5cm
\bottommargin 3.5cm
\headheight 3cm
\headsep 3cm
\footskip 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Elasticity of demand and conspicuous consumption in middle-Africa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Background
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Africa is on track to observe rapid development in the coming decades -
 but the phenomenal growth prospects of African countries are not without
 the conflicts and risks faced by countries in Southern and South-East Asia.
 The proposed study aims to assess the recent growth of African countries
 (more particularly the countries : Kenya, Ethiopia) in relation to Asian
 countries - with respect to utility of demand and market efficiency.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The central theme of the project is to quantify a control on spending patterns
 exercised by societies.
 In context of Africa, much as anywhere else, social attitudes have an effect
 on consumer decisions.
 Despite a possibility of a dramatic change, social attitudes are slow to
 detect and often change at a differential pace
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "krosnick_attitudes"

\end_inset

.
 The study defines the control on these 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

economic
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 attitudes as response in consumer demand trends across countries - and
 intends to separate common consumption patterns across countries from the
 differences which may be accounted for by social contexts.
 It is hoped that trends such as gold consumption in India and sports expenditur
e in the U.S.
 are evident from such an analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To narrow down its scope, the study focuses on commodities of conspicuous
 consumption and goods of utility - in order to offer a comparison of demand
 in countries of similar economic output and consumption levels.
 The wide scope is limited by a conscious avoidance of psychological analyses.
 An analysis as by Maslow (i.e.
 the theory of hierarchy of needs where “physiological” needs are fulfilled
 later then social needs) or Breckenridge (who classify consumption of goods
 in terms of pleasure, fantasy and style
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "breckenridge_consumption_book"

\end_inset

) is consciously avoided in favour of more measurable parameters of social
 norms e.g.
 the classification of consumption as bandwagon or snob type
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "yamada_sombartian"

\end_inset

 - or other assessments of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

wealth rank utility
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I focus on product-pairs and advertising elasticities to find out how African
 demand differs from the Asia and how well-equipped the current state of
 market in Africa is to address these demands.
 I test whether in presence of technology and increased access to information
 (e.g.
 the speed of reception of demand signals such as the role of spouses, elders
 etc.
 in consumer-decisions ) can lead to efficient market assumptions in middle-Afri
ca.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The sensitivity of these items to economic goals is of importance to policy.
 I believe that adjustment and sustenance of these consumption patterns
 should allow us to gauge the feasibility of economic growth.
 A future goal would be to delve into economic history to find out why certain
 patterns have prevailed (e.g.
 gold consumption in India, sports in the US).
 However, such a comparison is necessarily beyond the defined scope of this
 research.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Literature Survey
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The signaling effect or conspicuous consumption - the so-called Veblen effects
 - were studied for the first time by Thorstein Veblen in 1899.
 The current literature is full of studies on items with clear signaling
 effects (e.g.
 luxury items 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "bagwell_veblen"

\end_inset

).
 In context of Africa, scarcity of resources is expected to limit the signaling
 needs in society.
 However, the literature doesn't appear conclusive on the matter.
 On one hand, scarce resources are reported to cause consumers to focus
 on production of goods to meet their most basic needs (Keegan & Green,
 1997) 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "akay_poor_ethiopia"

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "clark_happiness"

\end_inset

 but on the other, economic inequalities are reported to result in increased
 signaling needs in society.
 In more realist terms, it would appear that the sale and consumption of
 products in developed vs developing countries seems more affected by the
 difference in levels of reliance on the agriculture sector (Less developed
 countries generate most of their GNP (70%) through agriculture while developed
 countries generate theirs primarily through services - [Raju, 1995; Russow
 & Okoroafo, 1996]).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I thus intend to view signaling effects with this essential difference in
 mind - taking into account the rapidly changing economic landscape of Africa.
 I find that a comparison of advertising elasticity and the changing levels
 of competition is necessary for before an Easterlin paradox is talked about
 in the context of Africa.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A study on cross-commodity demarcation with use of Engel curves (i.e.
 a visibility index measured through survey) performed by Corneo et al
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "corneo_snobbism"

\end_inset

is found relevant in this regard.
 Another study finds durable goods having high advertising elasticity in
 the developed world, followed by pharmaceuticals and service goods.
 Elasticity is thus visited to understand the effect of signaling in chosen
 countries.
 Scarcity can be used here as a criterion to assist in the classification
 of products 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "gierl_scarcity"

\end_inset

 as signaling or consumption (scarce consumption goods are expected to have
 lesser signaling impact).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The preliminary task for measuring the control on consumer trends is identificat
ion of a basket of signaling products valid across countries.
 Signaling
\series bold
 
\series default
products are essentially products that indicate social mobility (i.e.
 higher social status due to historical/economic reasons).
 A comparison of supply of products in the country/region vs the demand
 i.e.
 the consumption levels guides this identification.
 Whether the advertising elasticity is sensitive to economic factors for
 developing economies is the tested as part of this study (to verify if
 demand is driven by scarcity more than other factors in the developing
 economies).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A straightforward way to find the products having signal impact can be through
 a comparison with a price of the replacement product.
 An item of luxury, for example, is a product whose replacement value (e.g.
 price of a fake) would be far less.
 Signaling products can be replaced easily - but are expected to have a
 disproportionate spending on the supply side (advertising side) as well
 as a higher price.
 A replacement product is neither always a fake and nor even present in
 the context of signaling (Google Glass may not have a replacement but still
 exhibits signaling).
 A comparison with a utilitarian replacement - however - still provides
 a way to measure the signaling preference in demand.
 Wherever a replacement is not available, multiplicity of products can be
 used to highlight the signaling potential of a product as opposed to its
 competitors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The matching of these demand biases with the brand management and advertising
 efforts (relative to other countries) is planned as part of the study.
 A comparison of sales of items and the effect of advertising of consumption
 goods vs signaling products in the context of chosen African countries
 is expected to indicate the degree presence of signaling.
 The effect of factors such as scarcity, short-term volatility and seasonality
 of consumption goods as well as the level of industrialization and other
 economic variables on the identified signaling products can further help
 comment on stable vs transient spending patterns in the societies in African
 countries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A comparison of following product-pairs is thus planned to be undertaken
 as part of this exercise:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1
\series bold
.
 
\series default
Bicycles vs Cellphones - Bicycles are chosen since the lower costs of bicycles
 repairs open the item to informal sector - which is the primary employer
 in African countries
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "leys_ILO"

\end_inset

.
 It is assumed that without considering the informal sector, a full picture
 of consumer demand cannot be rendered.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.
 Bus Transport vs Cosmetic services - The signaling effect is likely to
 be minimal in Transport services.
 A few additional control parameters to be explored are the level of entrepreneu
rship, scarcity and average levels of income in the chosen regions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.
 Electronic Utilities vs Jewelry Watches - Functional electronic items may
 have similar costs of production when compared to chosen luxury items (which
 are to be measured in relative terms) but may carry far lower signaling
 impact.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.
 Brand Alcohol products vs (cheaper) Entertainment Drugs - Alcohol consumption
 has increased significantly in Africa.
 The replacement product would involve less production costs.
 Hence, the comparison is made with brand products to measure the efficiency
 of the market.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.
 Agricultural Products vs Canned Food Products - This is to assess the impact
 of level of industrialization in the chosen countries and its effect on
 signaling.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Data Gathering
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The WHO surveys related to consumption have been used in the literature
 - particularly related to drug consumption.
 For a preliminary analysis one use the data on exports and economic inequality
 available from World Bank.
 The supply on consumption of medicine and overpopulation can be obtained
 from various health organizations in the region..
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since informal sector continues to be the major employer in Africa - over-relian
ce on accounting variables (R&D, marketing, intangible or advertisement
 spending) may only have limited scope and implications - but the data available
 from corporates engaging in marketing efforts in the region would be of
 definite use in the measure of advertising elasticity.
 For accounting variables for such companies - which are visible in the
 investment community - I intend into rely on Capital IQ and Bloomberg.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given the vast presence of the informal sector, the data on income is not
 as easily available for emerging markets.
 This challenge is planned to be met by conducting our own survey or using
 survey-data available form marketing/government agencies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An attempt is to be made to remove political effects from this analysis.
 The data gathering and the analysis of demand curves clearly becomes difficult
 in the economic activity during war - which forms an area of research not
 pertinent to the proposed research.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "africa_attitudes"
options "ieeetr"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
