#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*

\size small
An Agean Summer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
It didn't occur to me for a long time that for nearly a year while I had
 worked for Nomura in 2010, I had walked amidst where the twin towers had
 once stood.
 From my office, I would often gaze at the mason pits where the constructions
 for a much talked-about memorial were under progress.
 As I tried catching eye contacts with the colleagues on smoke break, I
 would often turn attention to the slowly towering structures of the new
 World Trade Centre.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Big cities have a remarkable ability to move on - things we hold on dearly
 to in our lives often become trivial non-entities to others.
 Last month, when bomb blasts hit the Sultanahmat district, the thought
 that I could have been one of the victims while I had vacationed in Turkey
 sends chills down to bones - but the sense of ignominy the incident brings
 is equally disturbing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Modern development have given an unprecedented scale to this sense of ignominy.
 Every decade seems to fuel the nostalgia of the previous decade - the long
 summer days of my childhood spent poring over myriad Sanskrit and English
 texts appear from a different era in the world of Xbox and youtube.
 The school-teachers of my days - fully-trained academics fallen short of
 the limited quotas of Indian public sector - were to also find their literary
 enthusiasms thoroughly misplaced in modern India.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
I can thankfully still relive some of those magical moments in London -
 where a civilization seems to have survived all calamities.
 London houses multicultural neighborhoods as heartily as it harbours the
 vigour of the 18th century - an era when colonists had acquired new lands
 in Asia.
 Long before the seeds of colonialism and terrorism were sown, the law-makers
 had shuttled back and forth from England to the exotic lands of Asia to
 understand the local customs and languages.
 This was the time when Ballantyne had become the principal of Sanscrit
 [sic] College in Varanasi.
 Gun-toting men of East India Company - who had wished to repeat the Dutch
 success - were equipped both with military discipline and an obsession
 with the Greco-roman antiquity.
 The discovery of ancient India, much like the rest of the Asia, was understood
 in terms of Greek history - claims of Siva being Dionysus or Sanskrit having
 come out of Greek appear ludicrous now - but they didn't appear as far-fetched
 at the time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Ruins of an old Greco-Roman city lie within a mile from the hotel room in
 Turkey where I had written this note.
 The hunt for locations where the classics had been staged or St Paul had
 lived still excites the traveler and the relics of Roman empire never fail
 to impress.
 The sheer extent of an agrarian Roman empire nearly dwarfs the industrial
 ones of last centuries.
 That Greek writing systems and administrative institutions were transplanted
 in a mixed-race society in 6th century BC Parthia and India - dares to
 revive hopes for modern universalism.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Amidst this glory of classical civilization though, the sparkle of an Ottoman
 past is also quite conspicuous in Turkey- as is the genteel decline which
 followed the loss of territories.
 A political quickfix from Mustafa Kemal surfaces everywhere - in almost
 Leninist “red” fashion as flags at universities and administrative buildings.
 This could create fear or strength depending on one's political stance
 - but wary of the mixed results from militarism of Nehru and Bose in India,
 I only feel a mild caution in face of Turkish nationalism.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Like anywhere else with military attempts at modernity, the centuries of
 culture seems difficult to be shunned in a generation.
 Changing palaces (Abdul Mecit I) or ending sultanate had never been part
 of a plan to change the Islamic character of Turkey.
 The rural and urban divide is therefore stark in Turkey.
 The economic constraints on working classes from less developed hinterland
 seem to prevent them from enjoying the same education and life-standards
 as the city dwellers.
 While the economy has made impressive strides, the post-war industrialization
 does not seem to have advantaged the society evenly.
 Like elsewhere in Asia, bitter political rivalries make Turkey prone to
 corruption and extra-governmental control.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
As I walk through streets in Canakkale, an obsession with cars, electrical
 gadgets, fast-food and plastic chairs offers a ambiance familiar from my
 childhood.
 It isn't just the economic conditions that I can relate to, it is also
 the nostalgia that Turkey's splendid Islamic architecture evokes.
 Its palaces, halls, mosques and offices built between 15th and 19th centuries
 carry beautiful Arabic calligraphy and remind of an era not yet influenced
 by Western advancement.
 The curiosity of someone who had spent his youth in the US (and having
 had a distant and circumspect appreciation of Islamic art ) seems misplaced
 in this overdose of calligraphy - particularly when the average Turk doesn't
 seem to understand these taliq scripts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
A nostalgia feeds itself in solitude.
 As I would walk through these mosques, a disconnection from past offers
 a familiar discomfort.
 Thankfully, the country's success in modernization makes up very well for
 this slight unease.
 The sheer energy of ships, markets and traffic overwhelms.
 The country feels very much within Europe - but scrape through the surface
 though and you'll find middle-Eastern influences underneath.
 It is as if the modernity has been built out of Eastern history.
 To someone in India - institutionally trained to consider modernity as
 foreign (and thus destined depend on foreignness for modernity), this feels
 strange and yet desirable.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Turkish language itself is seems a great example of this melange.
 It is written in the Roman script - but is irreversibly intertwined with
 Persian and Arabic.
 The administrative and institutional words almost always rely on the Persian-Ar
abic vocabulary (
\shape italic
adalat, ziraat, sehr
\shape default
) whereas the everyday language sticks to native roots (syntax, numbers).
 Similar to the French overload in English, the words from both Persian
 and Turkic origins are allowed in Turkish (Persian 
\shape italic
meshur 
\shape default
and Turkic 
\shape italic
unlu 
\shape default
are both Turkish words).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
In this grand melee of cultures, one cannot lament for the calligraphy too
 much.
 In countries that have tried and have had some success with modernity,
 the merits of economic progress and public health seem far abound - but
 a feeling of disconnection from the past haunts.
 As I sip through the Turkish coffee, I remind myself that literacy itself
 is a modern, republican phenomenon (why cry over an extrapolated past).
 The average Turk in 19th century won’t have been able to read at all -
 so when modernity arrived, the medieval scholarship was set to disappear.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Central Europe itself precariously cherishes such time-warps in its smaller
 cities - defending itself against Americanization and rising immigration.
 The fate of medieval scholarship in the middle East is no different from
 that of the Latinate aristocracy of modern Europe.
 The real conflict in the middle-East - therefore - isn't that of East vs
 West, but that of modern urban frameworks with traditional rural frameworks.
 Our requirements of standard truths for citizens - lends itself to nationalists
 everywhere and instead of a Latinate/Sanskritic/Islamic aristocracy which
 relies on ancestral hierarchies, we survive on global markets, science,
 technology and engines of innovative machinery - essentially killing the
 market for classical paeans and religious cannons.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
Although I feel annoyed that my tour-guide cannot stop ridiculing the feudal
 lethargy of the Ottomans and the interest in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

petty
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 matters like clock towers at the cost of modernization of their armies,
 I can echo the youthful desire to overthrow Brahmins, Ming dynasts and
 feudalists of all sorts.
 To a radical modernizer, this seems a task unfinished in most of the developing
 world.
 I too find the 
\shape italic
rajput 
\shape default
habit of shooting guns at wedding ceremonies in India rather ridiculous
 - a habit they share with Turks that my tour guide finds annoying.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
The rural hinterland of Turkey is more religious than the coastal Turkey.
 The average Turk may not be taught Arabic - but the qurans which I saw
 in mosques were in Arabic.
 While at other places, this may point to ethnic strife, Turkey seems to
 move forward with this ambiguity.
 Sufi dervishes - once banned by Kemal - now perform at the shrine where
 they had started from.
 As the older past is decimated, it is difficult not to hope for a better
 connection with the past but although an attempt to revive the past may
 seem urgent to an Ottoman romantic, it is symbiosis and energy that Turkey
 seems to move ahead with.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
It would be difficult to imagine anything else - Turkey is after all a country
 where the Hellenic heritage can be truly celebrated.
 It is home to Troy, Aphrodisias, Hierapolis, Ephesus besides having maintained
 the capital of Roman empire and of early Christianity for centuries.
 At its peak, the Ottoman empire extended into Bulgaria and modern Greece
 and however undesirable this may appear now, the conquest years have left
 Turkey closer to Europe than any other middle-eastern country.
 This is a place where synthesis of a new world where East and West can
 meet seems possible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
It is by far the only place I have been to where Western universalism plays
 within the realms of Eastern traditions.
 It is not a society so structured and dependent on metrics like the West,
 that an idea of a Turkic “race” has yet taken a stronghold.
 Islam, in fact, keeps the country anchored to Asia.
 Probably confused for a Kurd, I was expected to speak in Turkish on multiple
 occasions.
 In India, where I won’t be allowed in a mosque as a non-Muslim and my friends
 of white color (Turkish use the same word for them - 
\shape italic
firangi
\shape default
 ) won't make it inside most Hindu temples from before 17th century, the
 grandest of all mosques are open to all in Istanbul.
 At a time when most of right-wing politics in India survives on an 18th-century
 dual self-identity of a devil-worshipping cult and a great Aryan civilization
 - the self-image of Turks seems to have veered far away from the horse-riding
 Asiatics which European travelers of 18th century had talked about.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
For someone still longing for colonial nostalgia, Turkey seems to have positivel
y moved on.
 Turks don't appear to be making money through enactment of an orientalist
 imagery.
 I couldn't find very many equivalents of elephant rides or stylized begging
 in Turkey.
 While there were a few belly dancing cruises I could have opted for, the
 splurge of classics kept me unprepared for the wonderful possibilities.
 I kept trying hard to find an orientalist motif to my experience - patterned
 pottery, sheesha lounges, bare stomach nikab-ed women, jugglers, acrobats
 and tricksters of all kinds - but it was remarkably easy to cut through
 the orientalism.
 With its sense of controlled chaos, Istanbul appears not so different from
 the Georgian London I have read about.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
That said, Istanbul does have its own mess.
 From the vantage point of the popular culture the West, Istanbul can be
 seen as a middle-eastern city with less rights for women, annoyances of
 catcalling, bad sanitation, general chaos and a crippling lack of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

freedom
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 But despite its chaos of the Egyptian bazaar, dumpsters, scamming taxi
 drivers and brutal police - the general feel and drive of the city imparts
 immense energy.
 Not only does the city seem to function, it outperforms in every way.
 The people seem content and happy.
 Women don't dress as conservatively as we are made to think - while the
 mosques aren’t abandoned either.
 In remote outskirts of small towns (Canakkale and Selcuk where I had stayed),
 huts made of mud and bricks are easily visible - but people still get out
 in the evening and enjoy a 
\shape italic
borek 
\shape default
or 
\shape italic
simit
\shape default
 with a shot of coffee.
 Cafes are close to the mosques - where young women can sit relaxed up until
 midnight.
 The image of middle-east presented to us in the West may still bear some
 truth (my tourist guide tells me that holding hands can cause riots in
 rural hinterlands of Eastern Turkey), but Agean Turkey dismantles stereotypes
 in every way.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\size small
I had heard from people and read in books - that East and West shake hands
 in Turkey.
 As I walk through its streets, columns from all empires seem to appear
 out of nowhere.
 The conflict of modern vs traditional has been flattened - not so much
 through containment or crackdown on traditional Islam (as many continue
 to recommend) but through adjustments to the idea of nationalism and a
 common language.
 Collapse of massive empires often leads to strife, but the decline which
 Ottoman empire underwent hasn't yet left Turkey in the kind of civil wars
 that had plagued the Balkans.
 The country had always been in conflict - my tourist guide tells me - but
 the microcosm of Istanbul welcomes all the world's problems and possibly
 the clues to their solutions as well.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
