#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\headheight 3cm
\headsep 3cm
\footskip 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Background in rationality exposes limits
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Understanding of economics as a humanities subject
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Background in mathematics helps analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Faith in market socialism of some sort
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
My own research is about supercomputing and some projects in Energy needs
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Statement of Purpose
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For most of my adult life, I have worked with rational interpretations of
 problems.
 Having done that over three continents has neither tired me nor shaken
 my faith in rationality.
 But there have limits to scope of rationality which I have run into.
 That world is not logical entirely is what I had remotely been feeling
 while at work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But as Kant had surmised, Mathematics shows someone how far one can go with
 a priori cognition independently of experience.
 The firs time I realized that was when I read the Basel III accord a within
 a few years I had finished implementing Basel II rules for a risk management
 system at JP Morgan.
 The accord, had as a response to the incidents - many times coming out
 of discussion points that I had in meetings.
 Coming up with rules for the risk management was lot more than risk-free
 pricing of instruments.
 Kant's claim that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

properly mathematical propositions are always a priori judgments and never
 empirical
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 - had sounded empty if not for exposure to financial economics.
 A degree in business as well as experience at work have convinced me that
 there is a lot more for rationality to achieve.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I thrived both sides of the Atlantic - and constantly felt as if I was working
 at the seams of technology rather than advancing it.
 While my friends worked in data-science and high-performance laboratories
 in technology and academic - I preferred learning about interest rate models
 and credit valuation adjustment.
 The idea of interest rate calibration and search for arbitrage opportunities
 did occupy most of my adult life - but to say that I had really appreciated
 economics simply not true.
 It was only until a moment that occurred last year in a classroom at London
 Business School taught by Dr Ralph Koijen - that I discovered what I had
 really been doing all this time.
 What it really meant to generate alpha - and more particularly how much
 wider the scope of academic research needs to be for someone to claim what
 seems basic understanding in the financial world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So I come to apply to the program with a conviction that is relatively recent.
 An education at London Business School reinvigorated the academic interest.
 Reading Lord Keynes on investment or Irving Fisher on the early of DCF
 model - apart from reading reasearch reports and journal papers.
 That transactions were simple and their goals fairly non-technical, were
 things that I had unwittingly overseen in my work experience - and the
 desire to forecasting and predictive trading seemed vastly unnecessary.
 The innate desire for theoretization expressed and rationalization could
 not limit itself to interest rates - and longed for more education in psycholog
y and economics - where rationality's true achievement applied to.
 I might have been working in the area of finance - but my scope was limited
 to the functions of my division - and the void that needed to be fulfilled
 because of a narrow focus of my work-experience needs to be widened through
 academic learning and with an intent to conducting research in the public
 domain.
 This was evident when I was looking for alpha based on PPE ratios - and
 testing out economic claims through backtesting.
 In another writeup, I had explore market-value of risk through simulations
 to find out why carbon trading markets had collapsed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This newfound interest wasn't by any means an aberration.
 I didn't intend to be the studious mathematician interested in using stochastic
 calculus.
 My early understanding mathematics came through problem solving - an understand
ing of calculus relied on mechanics, and of differential equations on chemical
 kinetics.
 Viewing buy-side finance after having designed algorithms trade volatility
 as an asset made me feel that needs of finance need to be understood better
 before an arms race is adopted towards generation of alpha.
 The historical pretext of volatility during Bretton Woods and the Lord
 Keynes’s treatises on pure theory of money exposed me to a mix of history,
 mathematics that I had remained unfamiliar with.
 Economics provided the language that mathematics represents for me.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My current goal for research in economics is driven by the need for investment
 - but wishes to apply statistics in the field of economics - rather than
 search for arbitrage alone.
 With part-time studies I wish to address curiosities that I have had but
 never attempted to provide a public domain for.
 The research I am broadly interested in are liquidity and cross-asset compariso
n of conspicuous consumption in societies.
 The preliminary work I have done in the area aligns with research from.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
References
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Inferences of pure reason performed with­ out respect to the limits of sensibili
ty give rise only to metaphysical illusion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mathematics gives us a splendid example of how far we can go with a priori
 cognition independently of experience.
 must first be remarked that properly mathematical propositions are always
 a priori judgments and are never empirical, because they carry necessity
 with them, which cannot be derived from experience.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Without sensibility no object would be given to us, and without understanding
 none would be thought.
 Thoughts without content are empty, intuitions without concepts are blind.
 It is thus just as necessary to make the mind's concepts sensible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Second Attempt
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In 2007, working in my first job at JP Morgan - I had been trained only
 to work on rational problems.
 My task was to improve methods to calculate credit risk for the firm's
 OTC portfolio and I was indeed thrilled at the sophistication involved
 in an accounting task.
 I worked at JP Morgan for 3 years - and joined a trading desk as I longed
 to learn more than what I had at the risk management division.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This wasn't because I was tired of reading rules for accounting as a trained
 scientist.
 In fact, it was to understand the accounting rules and their domain that
 I wished to learn about financial economics.
 Reading the Basel III accord, it became clear that the rules were being
 written in response to the very incidents we had talked about in our daily
 meetings.
 I had felt for the first time, that posing risk management as a rational
 problem is not sufficient to understand economics.
 Until then, Kant's claim that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

properly mathematical propositions are always a priori judgments and never
 empirical
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 - seemed to have fallen on empty ears until then.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It was a curiosity that drove me to work at trading desks on both sides
 of the Atlantic.
 But even though the calibration of interest rate models and searching for
 arbitrage opportunities in financial markets has occupied most of my adult
 life - I could not have said in all these years that I had appreciated
 economics.
 It was in fact only until in a classroom at London Business School taught
 by Dr Ralph Koijen - that I discovered the scope of my work.
 Taking courses in economics and reading Adam Smith, Fisher and Keynes on
 my way back from school that I understood the problem of generating alpha
 was a problem - far older than I had thought and the mathematical problem
 of risk management were fairly new on the scene.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Understanding Bretton Woods and the Keynes’s treatises on theory money exposed
 me to a mix of history, mathematics that I had remained unfamiliar with
 in my work life.
 Viewing buy-side finance after having designed algorithms trade volatility
 as an asset made me feel that needs of finance need to be understood better
 before an arms race is adopted towards generation of alpha.
 More particularly how much wider the scope of academic research needs to
 be for someone to claim what seems basic understanding in the financial
 world.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I view my decision to pursue research at the program is a culmination of
 this rather recent curiosity - in the humanities component of my knowledge
 - that transactions were simple and their goals fairly non-technical.
 To this goal the desire to forecasting and predictive trading seemed vastly
 insufficient.
 The innate desire for theoretization expressed and rationalization could
 not limit itself to interest rates - and longed for more education in psycholog
y and economics - with an intent to conducting research in the public domain.
 Economics provided the language that mathematics represents for me.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At London Business School, I was looking for alpha based on PPE ratios -
 and testing out economic claims through backtesting.
 In another writeup, I had explore market-value of risk through simulations
 to find out why carbon trading markets had collapsed.
 I have briefly researched on Burma - to understand issues in political
 economy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My current goal for research in economics is driven by the inputs for investment
 and policy-making.
 With part-time studies I wish to address curiosities that I have had but
 never attempted to provide a public domain for.
 The research I am broadly interested in are liquidity and cross-asset compariso
n of conspicuous consumption in societies.
 The preliminary work I have done in the area aligns with research by Dr..
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
