#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 4cm
\topmargin 4cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 4cm
\headheight 4cm
\headsep 4cm
\footskip 4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Statement of Purpose
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In 2007, when I was working in my first job at JP Morgan - I had been trained
 only to work on rational problems.
 I had been simulating air pollution at a lab before and my task at the
 bank was to improve the methods to calculate credit risk exposures for
 the firm's OTC portfolio.
 I was thrilled - to say the least - at the sophistication involved in what
 was seemingly an accounting activity.
 I worked with the firm for three years - and joined a trading desk soon
 afterwards.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would be wrong to say that I had quit the risk management division because
 I was tired of reading accounting rules as a trained scientist.
 On the contrary, I only wanted to learn more about the humanities - since
 my limited understanding of accounting had often led me to a void.
 Reading the Basel III accord, for example, it occurred to me for the first
 time that such rules are written not to invent a new theory - but only
 in response to the kind of incidents we had talked about in our daily meetings.
 Having been presented the issues of risk management always as a rational
 problem seemed to have hindered my understanding of the forces of economy.
 Kant's claim that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

properly mathematical propositions are never empirical
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 had never made more sense to me until then.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The curiosity drove me to work at trading desks on both sides of the Atlantic
 and during this time.
 The need to acquire skills which I hadn't been trained into were fulfilled
 by reading and communicating with other teams in the bank, but I often
 wished if I had a better background in business to understand those ISDA
 agreements which my B-School peers leisurely flipped through.
 Working on the tools to manage credit risk, I longed to see beyond factors
 like legal-enforceability and sovereign risk in the models which I had
 been arduously working on.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This further curiosity was fulfilled much later when I took courses in buy-side
 finance at London Business School and understood how market opportunities
 can arise due to legal differences.
 Reading Fisher, Smith and Keynes on my way back from school, I realized
 that problem of generating alpha had been older than I thought and often
 involved understanding societal factors as well as the relevant law in
 a country.
 With emerging markets playing a larger role in the global economy, I feel
 that the legal standardization is as important for business opportunities
 as it is for political stability in the changing socio-political milieu
 in the countries.
 It is with this conviction, that I wish to pursue a graduate diploma in
 law at the university.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I find that my background in finance and continued training in a framework
 of rationality could only be relevant to an education in law.
 An exposure to issues in political economy has taught me about the importance
 of law enforcement in assessment of risks associated with investments and
 a background in automated trading permits me to provide inputs for regulations
 of the financial markets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As someone trained in mathematics and computer science, the framework of
 rationality continues to appeal to me, but that at the heart of it all,
 financial transactions are fairly non-technical interactions - is a truth
 that I have realized only through practice.
 With the GDL program, I hope to build upon this understanding, speed up
 some of my learnings and connect with the legal community which I aspire
 to contribute to.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
