#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part*
Status consumption under extreme inequalities
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Status Consumption Definition] We view status consumption are items that
 are bought solely to indicate status.
 A related concept explored in the literature is conspicuous consumption
 - which has been defined as consumption in a higher than necessary quality
 or quantity
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "BritannicaConspCons2014"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
 In an emprical study, we are required to discern how some items indicate
 status and others don't.
 In the latter interpretation, we are similarly required to define a way
 to quantify the needs of the consumers.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The determination of social needs of the consumer is a subjective concern
 -and is not solved.
 The researchers comes up with a compromise saying that we should be worried
 about what consumers consider as poverty - regardless of what we think
 what poverty or the social need for a decent living is means.
 The empirical studies in the literature have often relied on the former
 interpretation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Scarcity and Consumer Demand
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Scarcity is key - what is scarcity? To contrast the post-war developments
 of markets and commercialisation, Hirsch considers social scarcity different
 from physical scarcity - arguing that the latter was what societies have
 faced for the most part so the demand which rose for items that were sparingly
 available in nature could be explained easily with physcal scarcity.
 The developments of the past decades he beleived were different because
 they had created a social scarcity - which was possible only because physical
 scarcity was largely conquered.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We know that physical scarcity is - As Sen says backseat- the literature
 says otherwise positive externality matters and the role of status goods
 is significant.
 To argue this quantitatively, we need to relate the ideas of social scarcity
 with demand.
 One can start by loosely interpreting an item as scarce if it is less available
 or less affordable.
 While the affordability of a status item (which is socially scarce) can
 be quantified using the prices of the status items and the consumer incomes,
 the availability of the items is more difficult to quantify given that
 it's the social scarcity of the item (or congestion as Hirsch terms it).
 A rural consumer could afford all shortages provided she is ready to pay
 the price for it - so an available item is just a very pricey item.
 since the literature in consumer demand find sufficient evidence of habit
 formation so that consumers who are not used to items tend to stick to
 their habits.
 High prices could therefore correspond to unavailability.
 Price differences are sufficient as long as the constraints to supply have
 been considered.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The interpretation needs to be careful since we have treated disadvantaged
 areas as just poor.
 If these poor areas were to get the amenities that were previously unavailable
 - we would expect that demand would be the same as where it is available.
 This is not what is seen in the literature.
 Friehe et al 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "FrieheGermany"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 - find for example that the demand for status goods - which we constrained
 in East Germany shot up significantly.
 The habits for status items follow the snob and bandwagon type behaviour.
 If exotic wines were not available in a neighborhood - there remains a
 latent desire which would unleash - but is subject the demand to supply.
 This is what Hirsch terms of overuse and Scitovsky considers boredom.
 These are what lead to the eventually crowding.
 Instead of availability and affordability, one does need to consider the
 peer effects.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Hierarchy of needs] One can think of a hierarhcy of needs - where status
 consumption is the non-durable consumption and the least permanent of these
 needs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Role of Reference
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Reference point] ever since Markowitz's
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "MarkowitzUtil1952"
literal "false"

\end_inset

 influential paper, reference point have played a key role in the understanding
 of utility from wealth.
 More recent behavioural theory (most prominently the Prospect-Theory
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "KahnemanTversykPT1979"
literal "false"

\end_inset

) have argued that the consumer optimise wealth around a reference rather
 than the absolute value.
 The use of reference points makes it possible to interpret many of the
 arguments made by Hirsch and Scitovsky in empirical terms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The ideas of social scarcity and congestion are theoretical concerns since
 measuring congestion of a particular item in a consumption survey is rather
 impractical.
 The demand for cars may be related to congestion among those who don't
 have the cars - but a particular relevant congestion may be difficult to
 proxy in a typical consumption survey.
 Reference groups allow us to proxy the context of the consumers.
 More specifically, the social need of the consumer can be pinned to the
 long-term circumstances that have a role in the habit formation among consumers.
 In using the reference groups, we don't proxy the social need with an index
 or argue that a certain level is necessary.
 We take an objective approach where status is influenced by owned assets
 and any consumption that is above the minimum needs level and is not associated
 with assets.
 The minimum needs level consumption in our analysis is the consumption
 at the level of consumers having run out of food.
 This is described in Chapter 2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To compare this approach with the conventional mode for analysis of quality,
 we use the price-based quality in food and energy to explain how scarcity
 could affect consumer demand.
 Chapter 1 undertakes this question and explores the variation of quality
 itself in a typical developing economy in sub-Saharan Africa.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The theoretical concerns presented Hirsch and Scitovsky are more general
 and are worth exploring in their own right.
 We therefore attempt to advance the current models for status competitions
 using a stochatic approach in Chapter 3.
 More particularly, we explore the role of income differences and stratification
 among different income groups on the demand for status consumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
btprint "btPrintCited"
bibfiles "IEEEfull,C:/local_files/research/africa_attitudes"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
