#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lscape}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\columnsep 1.4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Status is a complex phenomenon.
 Literature measures it as occupation, education, income and relationships.
 Wealth indices exist in the literature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While SES (socio-economic-status) indices have an influence on health and
 welfare, our goal is to study the effect of the factors driving status
 with consumption.
 This is in relevance to the body of literature that points to the evidence
 of higher income-elasticities for visible items (more for goods than for
 services).
 We believe that to extend the literature on visible items to the developing
 world, one must be aware of the high price tag of some of the items that
 are deemed 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

visible
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 .
 More particularly, whether an item indicates status or not could be driven
 by the enormous price of the item - a fact that cannot be ignored in more
 unequal societies.
 The literature on conspicuous consumption is surveyed to highlight this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We also discuss the crowd behaviour in the works by Manski <...>- whose take
 on 
\series bold
Hirsch 
\series default
is most aligned with our view.
 While Hirsch's (verbal) explanations of scarcity are quite convincing -
 the fusion of physical and social scarcity in the post-industrial markets
 - is difficult to verify.
 It may be possible with certain surveys to quantify how scarcities are
 felt (those who feel less 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

scarcity
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 may feel relatively happier when all else is the same), but we are limited
 to physical scarcities when such subjective data is not available in the
 household surveys.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We are interested in how changes in asset ownership over time relate with
 the status-signaling through non-durable consumption.
 We believe that the two pieces in the literature (on conspicuous consumption
 and on the measurement of socioeconomic status) can be understood with
 an intertemporal life-cycle model where the consumer optimises her status
 both by increasing the assets she would possess over her lifetime and different
iating herself from others through expensive non-durable consumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the early econometric attempts to measure status-related consumption
 had been due to Duesenberry who highlights the issues with Veblen's view
 of the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

futility
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 items that indicate higher status.
 While we don't agree with the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

futility
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of status assets ourselves, we find that an understanding of status consumption
 as a combination or balance of two opposing tendencies of a consumer -
 the snob tendency of distinguishing oneself from others and the bandwagon
 tendency of following the others - can have provide theoretical and econometric
 insights.
 Behaviourally, both tendencies exist in individuals at the same time and
 it makes sense to measure the relative weight of the two tendencies reflected
 in habits and expenditure over the lifetime.
 We seek to find whether individuals change their savings rate over the
 life-cycle model.
 Whether quality measurements would change with asset ownership over the
 lifetime or not.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A stochastic model is then outlined for the maximisation of the expected
 life-time utility.
 This gives way to the econometric methods for measurement of substitution
 between stocks and non-durable consumption.
 An extension to this utility function would account for the expensive non-durab
le consumption along with the stocks.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Data is then presented.
 Clean up steps are detailed.
 Results from the model.
 A future goal of the comparison with the developed world would help us
 understand some qualitative differences in tastes measured in this manner.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Part
Status consumption in sub-Saharan Africa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The relationship of assets vs consumption is relevant in the developing
 countries.
 The number of cars double in the UK in the when it was introduced.
 The pressure that it would have created in the non-durable consumption
 is important
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "MuellbauerRationalityMyopia1988"

\end_inset

.
 We attempt to understand the effects of owning these over the data we have
 from Tanzania (how is this relevant to status).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A consumer purchases a new not only for the need but the variation in quality
 also results in imparting of status(basic claim).
 Wilson (1987) discussion of the underclass is compelling in ways that formal
 analyses of social mobility cannot hope to match.
 However, verbal reasoning is also less precise than mathematical argument.
 The ambiguity of words permits a proliferation of concepts.
 Social Capital (ill-defined) idea.economists have typically made assumptions
 about group composition and then proceeded with analysis.
 For example, the Boijas (1991) analysis of "ethnic capital" presumes that
 persons interact with members of their own ethnic group; the Glaeser et
 al.
 (1996) study.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The literature understands status in terms of 
\series bold
o
\series default
ccupational status, ownership of 
\series bold
a
\series default
ssets,  
\series bold
l
\series default
ifestyle purchases and social 
\series bold
i
\series default
dentity (see 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "NCVHS,PsakiSeidman2013,DiemerMistry2013"

\end_inset

).
 We argue the determinants of status could be understood in the terms of
 assets.
 The measurement of wealth in terms of assets has both theoretical and practical
 support in the literature (see 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "MichelsonMunizDeRose2013,McKenzie2005"

\end_inset

).
 Use of PCA is quite common for building a wealth-based index- our goal
 is to only understand the interplay of these factors with the non-durable
 consumption - particularly in the context of the demand for electronic
 goods.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Veblen's extension in econometrics isn't easy.
 Duesenberry discards Veblen
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Duesenberry1949"

\end_inset

.
 We don't.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
U & =u_{1}(\lambda_{food}u_{2,food}(q_{food}),\lambda_{energy}u_{2,energy}(q_{energy}),...)
\end{align*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We would like to consider education and occupation as assets that individuals
 earn - they should all be taken as assets in that sense.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The difference in assets and consumption is not that much that we would
 talk about presence of conspicuous consumption.
 A comparison with the developed world becomes necessary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Conspicuous consumption items are not magical items - they don't indicate
 status by their own right.
 They indicate status - only because their owners are known to have lots
 of assets (inclusive of endowments and identities).
 We don't intend to get into the definition of what is a conspicuous item
 and what isn't.
 In the narrow sense, that interests us, we're only interested in the distributi
on of relative expenditure on high quality items with distribution of expensive
 assets (including education and other endowments).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "C:/local_files/research/africa_attitudes"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
