#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass extarticle
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "tgschola" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 9
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\headheight 2.5cm
\headsep 2.5cm
\footskip 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Research Question
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Does status consumption cause consumers to be more confident about the future?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Need for Status
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Status implied by status goods and wealth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first question that we must clarify is whether status goods are used
 to indicate higher status by those having higher status or are by those
 who don't have higher status? Since status goods arise out of competition
 - there are reasons to be believe both of these are true.
 It is why Veblen considers both individious comparison (IC) and pecuniary
 emulation (PE) important towards conspicuous consumption (for which I have
 used a more general definition of status consumption).
 The two mechanisms of IC and PE are theoretical constructs that can be
 contended on descriptive concerns since a consumer hardly ever knows the
 which of the two purposes status good purchases are made.All consumers both
 want to become richer and show to the poor that they are richer.
 Without descriptive concerns, this is a universal need.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is indeed the current view of status consumption.
 Status consumption is needed by everyone but is determined by a particular
 context.
 It is more appropriate to say that status competitions thrive in the ambiguity
 over who has higher status.
 Status consumption in this view is a currency of status competitions.
 Since competitions vary by social contexts, the issue of a reference point
 is key to status consumption.
 One does not expect status competitions to ensue between two consumers
 with extreme social-economic or cultural differences (i.e.
 disjoint reference points) who are aware of the extreme differences.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is worth emphasising that "status" is not a prerequisite for participating
 in status competitions or purchasing status goods.
 If only those with status needed to spend on status goods, we would see
 no status consumption in societies as they moved towards equality.
 As Hirsch and empirical literature notes, however, the improvement in median
 incomes seems to have increased the focus on status items in the developed
 world.
 If only those with status purchased status goods, then the demand for status
 items would have dwindled.
 The notion of status indeed changes with consumption.
 This is an agreement with the status competition view of status since with
 less income differences in an economy, status goods are all what consumers
 can use to participate in competitions for status.
 When basic amenities are granted for everyone, the avenues for demonstrating
 wealth are slightly reduced.
 This makes the importance of luxury goods higher.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The universal need of status consumption implies a reference dependent status
 consumption.
 This however does not mean that richer consumer has different needs - only
 that her context makes the absolute cost of status indication need higher
 than for a poorer consumer.
 A rich neighborhood having high prices of food does not mean that the needs
 for food are costlier for the richer consumer.
 If that was true, an arbitrageur would take advantage to offer cheaper
 prices for food with the difference in prices for food explained through
 costs of transportation.
 However, consumer choose optimise life-style and higher goals rather than
 saving on food consumption.
 The choice for higher costs on food may therefore be intertwined with ownership
 of long-term goods which define a rich neighborhood.
 Higher needs might are a part of availing higher status - rather than having
 different needs per se.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Transition Probability between asset-bands
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[PT motivated view] The empirical analyses in behavioural economics often
 decompose utility into value (with respect to a reference) and the probability
 of a gain in the value.
 As behavioural approaches are concerned with the descriptive significance
 of the consumer theory, such probabilities are meant to represent the consumers
 beliefs of the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

lottery
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 they participate in rather than the probability of the growth in the economy.
 If we assume that consumer references are observed over the long-term and
 are thus related with only their long-term characteristics such as wealth,
 income-level, region or social identity, then a certaint transition probability
 between asset-band that the consumers subjectively observe.
 The utility to every consumer is thus derived from the value derived from
 their asset purchases and their belief about the probability of growth
 in their future income - which would influence if consumers spend more
 on non-durable consumption than on items that directly contribute to assets
 
\bar under
(which would improve her position with respect to the reference)
\bar default
.
 More specifically, expenditure on education is merely an expense and increases
 ..
 We don't know exact value derived from education , from jewelry, from alcholic
 drinks etc.
 - we we do know that they are less likely to improve- consider that all
 non-durable consumption do not change the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

value
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 which is what consumers are optimising - and which is observed in the economy.
 We use the prospect theory view only to motivate how distance from the
 reference is value by the consumer.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The utility the consumer obtains from consumption is thus driven by the
 value of asset changes she obtains and the interpretation of probability
 that is sensitive to the risk-aversion that the consumer has.
 The utility function optimised by the consumer is 
\begin_inset Formula $u(\kappa,A+\Delta A+\Pi(\nu,r)-r)$
\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 represents the status consumption that enhances the consumer's view of
 
\begin_inset Formula $A+\Delta A$
\end_inset

 by merely adding 
\family roman
\series medium
\shape up
\size normal
\emph off
\bar no
\strikeout off
\xout off
\uuline off
\uwave off
\noun off
\color none

\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset


\family default
\series default
\shape default
\size default
\emph default
\bar default
\strikeout default
\xout default
\uuline default
\uwave default
\noun default
\color inherit
.
 This is based on the assumption that while consumers do compete with both
 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $A+\Delta A$
\end_inset

 , 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 gives a social utility 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset

 that is common for all consumers in the same reference level.
 The consumer must choose 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Formula $\Delta A$
\end_inset

 so that the utility 
\begin_inset Formula $u(\nu,A+\Delta A,r)$
\end_inset

 is maximised.
 It is worth emphasising that any real status is achieved only through 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $A+\Delta A$
\end_inset

.
 
\bar under

\begin_inset Formula $\kappa$
\end_inset

 is the factor of heterogeneity that controls how good the consumer
\bar default
 feels about the future while spending 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 on status consumption hoping for future 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu)$
\end_inset

 and having acquired the assets 
\begin_inset Formula $A+\Delta A$
\end_inset

.
 The PT form of the utility to be optimised for various options 
\begin_inset Formula $(\nu_{j},A+\Delta A_{j})$
\end_inset

 looks like the following
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align}
u(\nu,A,\Delta A,r)=w(p,\alpha)\cdot\kappa(\nu)\cdot\upsilon(\Pi(\nu,r)+A+\Delta A-r)+w(1-p,\alpha)\cdot\upsilon(A+\Delta A-r)\label{eq:main_pt_like_utility}
\end{align}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula $\kappa$
\end_inset

 is only responsible for heterogenous factors that influence consumer's
 confidence.
 That the status goods improve one's self-understood networth is evident
 from the value 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu)$
\end_inset

.
 
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha$
\end_inset

 represents risk-aversion.
 If the consumer is risk-averse then 
\begin_inset Formula $w(p)$
\end_inset

 would be lower.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Instrumenting 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset

] More status consumption means higher 
\family roman
\series medium
\shape up
\size normal
\emph off
\bar no
\strikeout off
\xout off
\uuline off
\uwave off
\noun off
\color none

\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset

 which is associated with lower 
\begin_inset Formula $p$
\end_inset

.
 The basic idea is that we are saying consumers value 
\begin_inset Formula $c_{t}$
\end_inset

 not spend in the air but doing it because the references requires them
 - they are welcome to choose references - but there is a lot of status
 consumption that would come with changing references.
 
\family default
\series default
\shape default
\size default
\emph default
\bar under
\strikeout default
\xout default
\uuline default
\uwave default
\noun default
\color inherit
Long term choices are made that don't accumulate but just change reference
 in hope of risk and stability
\family roman
\series medium
\shape up
\size normal
\emph off
\bar no
\strikeout off
\xout off
\uuline off
\uwave off
\noun off
\color none
.
 The best we can do for 
\begin_inset Formula $p$
\end_inset

 is to assume that higher 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 increases 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset

 - a function that measures how much the financial reward from status consumptio
n.
 So far this is only an assumption - we haven't really justified that status
 consumption is believed to be causing direct value.
 The idea is that status consumption offer utility as value i.e.
 when someone buys a luxury watch they believe that they're going to be
 rich.
 That's a problematic assertion - all what we can say is that the consumer
 wants to get ahead in the local competition - she does not need to believe
 in being rich.
 The use of PT does not align with the normative judgment that more mobility
 would cause people to buy more watches.
 In other words, for PT to work, we'll have to relate the normative argument
 of status consumption for mobility (related with utility through future
 value) with the descriptive argument of status competition that is known
 to cause status consumption.
 Otherwise, it would be difficult to justify how the consumers purchase
 status to become rich by a specific amount.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[descriptive and normative connection future expectations] What's common
 across both the arguments is that consumers participate in the consumption.
 Therefore we connect the two arguments with reference bands.
 The differences in wealth bands create different reference bands but they
 also create competitions.
 So the consumers can try to get ahead by pitching themselves to the richer
 bands.
 This may not work when the difference in bands is very high - but it should
 work if the difference is low.The transition probability is exogenous and
 consumers's belief is subject to the reference and other demographic factors
 which result in risk-aversion.
  The problem is that the probability of transition is not probability that
 the consumer observes while purchasing status goods.
 For the connection of normative and descriptive arguments, these probabilities
 must relate to each other as well.
 Status consumption creates hopes - but can we put associate a value with
 the amount of money it creates hopes for? Definitely not.
 We can consider the transition probability if status consumption is seen
 always attached to a certain higher wealth band.
 The value the consumer gets from status consumption is therefore relative
 to this reference.
 We can use a metric as the consumption of the guy 20% richer etc.
 to make sure we're not measuring distance from the average.
 More specifically, we can look at how far a consumer's status consumption
 is with the consumption of the consumer 
\begin_inset Formula $x\%$
\end_inset

 quantile above herself.
 But if we fix reference levels - e.g.
 arbitrary bands of assets 030%, 30-70%, 70-100%etc., then only the band
 identity can offer any interpretations - we don't know of a way to use
 the distance from band-average in the utility.
 Is there reference consumption or is it assets-value.
 We have to standardise both consumption and value in the same way - hence
 the use of 
\family roman
\series medium
\shape up
\size normal
\emph off
\bar no
\strikeout off
\xout off
\uuline off
\uwave off
\noun off
\color none

\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset

.
 Because of this need for standardisation, 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset

 - the silly suggestion that the consumer knows or guess how much value
 she can get from status consumption is required.
 HOW ELSE CAN WE STANDARDISE 
\begin_inset Formula $c_{t}$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $A_{t}$
\end_inset

 choices.
 
\begin_inset Formula $c_{t}$
\end_inset

 are joined with accumulation in conventional models - but we are saying
 consumers value 
\begin_inset Formula $c_{t}$
\end_inset

 not spend in the air but spend it as a need to be in the reference band.
 They don't get it for a measurable benefit in future assets.
 This is different from PT - the consumers only choose references and needs
 include status needs - the lottery is thus not presented to them.
 The confusion still exists because social networks are important and the
 consumers aren't just comparing bland consumption goods - but they are
 hoping that social networks would uplift them.
 Upliftment through social networks is the only way a consumer gets any
 monetary benefit from status consumption.
 Relative wealth difference is therefore what the consumer gets by engaging
 in status consumption.
 More status consumption would take her closer to higher band.
 But we don't know this for sure - and we have no way of verifying that
 status consumption does indeed increase one's chance of becoming rich.
 We can only assert the reverse causaility that consumers in the reference
 spend similarly.
 But answer which reference also requires us to answer the same question
 - how do we know if the consumers spend differently do so only because
 the prices of goods are different.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[NO PROOF that status consumption gives 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 ] We cannot prove that status consumption provides measurable gains.
 We have tried arguing the other way - but that too amount to different
 prices of excess across bands.
 We can say implied prices of aggregated excess are different nothing else.
 So the consumers don't spend the same on those goods - due to the goods
 not being available there , being pricey or low quality.
 This is the quality quantity distinction - the suggestion that quality
 is also maximised.
 What we're saying is that quality is clustered due to heterogeneous prices.
 CAN DIFFERENT TYPES OF 
\begin_inset Formula $c_{t}$
\end_inset

 indicate different types of probabilities? THAT'S THE ONLY WAY PT can be
 made relevant.
 ONE WAY is to consider both prices of quality and differences in happiness.
 Confidence would depend only on nu and Delta A.
 so would the implied price of quality.
 If the two disagree, then we know that the role heterogenous factors influence
 happiness.
 but does that prove heterogeneity of goods - i think IT IS ONLY WITH HETEROGENE
ITY OF CONSUMPTION ON GOODS that we can make any probability judgment.
 The goods can be classified more easily based on communication i.e.
 if they're necessitated due to communication (and more communication leads
 to higher consumption).
 So far the excess do not seem to be items for personal consumption.
 In such a case, we would argue that the consumers face the options to use
 cheaper options and use the rest towards saving or asset purchases.
 That's the only heterogeneity we have.
 So we can classify items by observed price and select that are non-cheapest
 - to look at the consumption on them.
 All these count as 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 - now the differences in the consumption could be driven solely by logx
 or by the reference.
 It's interesting to see 
\bar under
being in different asset-bands causes the consumption on these items to
 be different
\bar default
.
 Does more communication lead to happiness or more knowledge of poverty
 (i.e unhappiness)? (NOTICE THE PROBLEM WITH ITEMS CLASSIFICATION TABLE).
 How does implied 
\begin_inset Formula $P_{\nu}$
\end_inset

 vary across geographies or asset-bands.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[CAUSALITY in CONFIDENCE] The issue of causality is important again for
 subjective well-being just the same - it needs to be clear whethe r the
 consumer's happiness influences the selection of 
\family roman
\series medium
\shape up
\size normal
\emph off
\bar no
\strikeout off
\xout off
\uuline off
\uwave off
\noun off
\color none

\begin_inset Formula $(\nu,\Delta A)$
\end_inset

 or the choice of 
\begin_inset Formula $(\nu,\Delta A)$
\end_inset

 makes her happy.
 
\begin_inset Formula $w$
\end_inset

 on the left-side is of the typical regression is based on the theory that
 consumer maximises utility function subject to a constraint.
 What we're saying with PT is that consumer choose utility over  many options
 - the two extremes being one where all consumption goes to 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 and the other where all of it goes to 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

.
 With all else being the same i.e.
 same income 
\begin_inset Formula $x=\Delta A+\nu$
\end_inset

, the same reference (local geographical asset-band) the risk-seeking consumer
 would have a higher 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 with higher 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu)$
\end_inset

.
 The contentment data fits into this by comparing if the consumer is contented.
 Notice that consumers don't select consumption that makes them happy they
 select consumption that gives the maximum utility for a given constraint.
 We're not arguing that consumers optimise happiness to select consumption.
 We're only checking if consumers are happy in competitive settings (if
 happy consumers spend more then we know that what misery is).
 Whether a consumer is optimistic about the future or not has got little
 to do with how she spends - we can use the data to test whether increasing
 negative distance from reference does make the consumer unhappy or not.
 This would help us test if the local reference are relevant for consumption.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[CAUSALITY in CONFIDENCE] 
\family roman
\series medium
\shape up
\size normal
\emph off
\bar no
\strikeout off
\xout off
\uuline off
\uwave off
\noun off
\color none
The consumer's contentment is only a consequence of her overall needs, social
 or regional identity, acquired assets and the consumption - not a motivator
 for consumption per se.
 So even though optimistic consumers spend differently from pessimistic
 consumers, their optimism or pessimism may be due to not being able to
 consumer as high as they wished i.e.
 due to reference.
 If for the same consumption, assets and region, some consumers are happier
 than others then it only appears it should be tested in data - not as a
 cause of utility.
 We do this by checking if the consumers who optimise utility around reference
 are more unhappy when they're below the reference.
 We use the conclusion to explain if being miserable does influence the
 shape of the utility curve or not.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Therefore there are two different goals in the study.
 The first is to see if the so-called status consumption around reference
 varies across 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu)$
\end_inset

 and is better explained than plain 
\begin_inset Formula $w$
\end_inset

.
 The second is the test if happiness does explain these factors - possibly
 due to factors that we fully don't understand or capture.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\bar under
Consider two consumers 
\begin_inset Formula $1$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $2$
\end_inset

 
\bar default
who have the same reference and get the same income 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 but consumer 
\begin_inset Formula $1$
\end_inset

 spends more on status consumption so that 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu_{1}+\Delta A_{1}=\nu_{2}+\Delta A_{2}$
\end_inset

 but 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu_{1}>\nu_{2}$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $\Delta A_{1}<\Delta A_{2}$
\end_inset

.
 Since status-consumption gives a higher perceived probability of transition
 subject to their reference they would higher utility.
 When the consumer using utility in Equation 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:main_pt_like_utility"
plural "false"
caps "false"
noprefix "false"

\end_inset

 spends all 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 in 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 , then all utility is through 
\begin_inset Formula $\upsilon(A+\Delta A)$
\end_inset

.
 On the other hand, when all income is spent towards 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 , 
\begin_inset Formula $\Pi(\nu,r)$
\end_inset

 also matters.
 For a fixed 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

, 
\series bold
the consumers have different levels of risk-aversion 
\series default
.
 .
 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 could influence 
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha$
\end_inset

 as could education or other long-term demographic factors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For continuous approximation of value function use : plot(x,x**round(2+1/(2*exp(
x)+1))) or just plot(x,x**3*(1+1/(exp(x)+1))) i.e.
 
\begin_inset Formula $\upsilon(x)=x^{3}\frac{2+e^{x}}{1+e^{x}}$
\end_inset

 or similar such forms - but it may be easier to use the linear approximation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the approach 1, since status from consumption only be had from quality
 in non-durable consumption relative to a 
\bar under
reference and the wealth 
\bar default
as well as long-term characteristics (which determine the reference), we
 can compare budget weights of non-durable consumption on items not-related
 with assets and basic needs to judge whether a certain level of consumption
 on relative non-durable excess is high for existing wealth bands.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the approach 2, we use the 
\begin_inset Formula $w$
\end_inset

 with local effects.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Convention Approach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the conventional approach of the intertemporal subsistution, we would
 argue that there is an observed rate of growth of assets which the consumer
 - but this interest rate is a huge assumption it works only because we
 want to observe consumption against long-term economic growth.
 That consumers differentiate between items for status also because their
 is a need associated with reference is discarded by the blanket assumption
 that all assets must grow and thus all consumption gives a felicity.
 All non-assets need not be consumed but invested in different streams -
 education is a different consumption from jewelry and so on.
 We therefore consider reference to be of key importance.
 That consumers must optimise value with respect to reference provides a
 better view of status consumption and does not require status consumption
 to be futile.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Model
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula $u(c_{t})=\sum\upsilon(x_{i}-r)w(p_{i})$
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The status goods give utility relative to 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 - not through 
\begin_inset Formula $p$
\end_inset

.
 Further, 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 is determined as a function of 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathscr{A}$
\end_inset

.
 We have the subjective well-being survey report 5 levels - so we choose
 we five parts of the asset hierarchy.
 We assume that these bands can be determined and the transition between
 them is possible.
 
\begin_inset Formula $w(p)$
\end_inset

 is influenced by occupational, regional, traits.
 Needs are also part of 
\begin_inset Formula $c_{t}$
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Instead of having a sum over individual items, let's consider needs, asset-purch
ases and excess above.
 Let's use per head consumption and predetermined needs so we consider only
 assets 
\begin_inset Formula $A+\Delta A$
\end_inset

 with probability 
\begin_inset Formula $\propto\kappa(\nu)$
\end_inset

.
 The utility is maximised for a combination of 
\begin_inset Formula $(A+\Delta A,\nu)$
\end_inset

 such that 
\begin_inset Formula $u(\kappa(\nu),A+\Delta,r)=\upsilon(A+\Delta-r)\kappa(\nu)$
\end_inset

 is maximised.
 This results in an additive utility representation - where the budget constrain
ts is 
\begin_inset Formula $\Delta A+\nu=x$
\end_inset

 - except that 
\begin_inset Formula $\upsilon(A+\Delta-r)$
\end_inset

 is an asymmetric function with inflection at 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

.
 A consumer would choose 
\begin_inset Formula $A+\Delta A<r$
\end_inset

 is 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We 
\begin_inset Formula $u(\kappa(\nu),A+\Delta A,r)$
\end_inset

 - 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Watch and Education] Now compare watch with Education.
 The former can happen quickly with low probability but latter happens slowly
 also with a low probability but higher than lottery or social network.
 There is a long-term uncertainty - we don't know how the economy is going
 to evolve and the relative importance could change.
 The difference is not only in probability but also in time horizon.
 That's why education is a need - not status consumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Watch and Furniture] Watch does not add anything transferable to the next
 generation.
 Which would should give more happiness to the consumer among watch or furniture
 is an interesting question.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
==
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Astebi et al suggest the importance of reference
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "AstebiCarbonell2019"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Kingdon and Knight 2007 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Empirical Method
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Empirical method] The subjective inference of the utility from c_t can
 be inferred subjective data.
 The rational consumer has needs , status-goods (assumed) - for which she
 faces the income constraint - but she gets utility from .
 Can we argue a PIGLOG for the cost-function c(u,p) the cost of a certain
 utility given a price - we have prices of common goods - not high quality
 goods - which we proxy with asset-bands.
 Individuals with high-asset bands would have higher prices of quality.
 So price of quality should be adjusted based on asset-bands.
 the overall price in the asset-band could be the average.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[FEATURE-LIST FOR ESTIMATION] If we assume a certain form of 
\begin_inset Formula $\kappa(\nu,A+\Delta A)$
\end_inset

 we can measure how status consumption is valued across different references
 (it is proven with data that those who feel discontented spend higher on
 status goods).
 We can see if local references are more important.
 
\begin_inset Formula $LR$
\end_inset

 for example is a significant contributor to how the consumer spends on
 status consumption.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[P1: SUBJECTIVE WELL-BEING w(p) or size of reference] Some possibilities
 for the interplay of happiness, status consumption and asset-ownership.
 c(u,p) can be formalised if we can understand what risk-aversion is implied
 by status-consumption, asset-band (not asset possession) and confidence.
 How does risk-aversion determine c(u,p) ? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 confident poor consumers with low status consumtption: Either she has lower
 reference or that she believes that she is going to be rich 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.
 confident poor consumer with high status consumption budget: there is high
 status consumption 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.
 despondent poor consumers with low status consumption: low reference low
 probability 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.
 despondent poor consumers with high status consumption: high reference
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
5.
 confident rich consumers with low status consumtption: high reference non
 need for status consumption (compare with poor consumers status consumption
 and happiness) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6.
 confident rich consumer with high status consumption budget: there is high
 status consumption 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
7.
 despondent rich consumers with low status consumption: low reference low
 probability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
8.
 despondent rich consumers with high status consumption: high reference
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Observed variables: 1.
 c_t 2.
 price of food and kerosene 3.
 number of family members 4.
 how positive the consumer is 5.
 total assets
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Proposal 1 for c(u,p)] We don't have the intertemporal setting and we only
 look at how consumer gets utility from asset-band-identity and status goods
 - value she considers subject to her reference with the well-being data.
 How much consumer "prices" status consumption is different from the market
 prices of status consumption.
 If w has to be used, then the market prices of status consumption should
 appear as control variables.
 Only the reference band belonging can proxy this - which we have fixed.
 P1.1 implies that poor consumers don't value status consumption P1.2 implies
 that poor consumers value status consumption
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[A need for REFERENCE inference - DIFFERENCE IN UTILITY DUE TO DIFFERENT
 REFERENCES OR RISK-AVERSION?] The reference-based competitions don't increase
 probability but give utility through value.
 But PT also implies that some consumers may be more risk-averse than others.
 The utility we get from the same amount of status consumption could vary
 based on our occupation and social background.
 The evidence from visible consumption has often indicated the role of social
 identity.
 But if status consumption give utility in a PT fashion then do higher status
 consumption for certain social identities exist because of lower reference
 for them or because of risk-aversion implied by occupational structures?
 Only an appropriate selection of reference can answer this questions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[MULTIPLE REFERENCES] Multiple references only mean multiple asset-bands
 therefore.
 Our reference and the asset-band are one and the same thing.
 If a consumer compares herself with a wider reference, she is just being
 more risk-seeking.
 She cannot be from a higher reference.
 [REFERENCE INFERENCE] The belief that one can be ultra-rich - makes oneself
 inrease the status consumption - but does that also increase expand one's
 reference.
 PT considers only one reference and therefore if probabilities are exogenous,
 the reference the consumer must have needs to be unique.
 One consumer cannot have multiple references.
 But the key feature of reference we want to represent is that the improbable
 seems probable when you can see yourself in a higher reference.
 More communication does increase status consumption but it does not increase
 the real probability of transition only decreases risk-aversion level or
 the w(p) - this is where subjective well-being data be used for comparison.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Meauring Reference boundary] Consider geographic clusters based on A -
 these clusters include goods that they can transfer to others.
 So in two regions C and D, the asset bands would be 5 states.
 The aribtrary distance over which the median is 10 kms - Sparsely populated
 area would have less people in the average - and that is aligned with less
 data for them.
 We are not collected same people per km**2 - urban areas have more people
 so there would be more dispersion in income in the urban areas.
 There would be more inequality in urban areas too - which would result
 in more asset bands (which would be associated with differentiation in
 status goods as well.
 )
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[happy people spend more on status or postpone enjoyment] People who believe
 they are going to be rich - would be upbeat and spend more on status goods.
 We can ask whether happy people spend more status goods or happy people
 end up saving more.
 The theory would say that happy people should spend more.
 But we might find that happy people postpone enjoyment as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[recording consumption] The reference is meant to depend on wealth bands
 - and that we believe is implied by real needs - expenditures implied by
 having assets.
 All psychological needs that cause you to have more non-durable consumption
 are not part of external needs.
 They are excess consumption whether because of higher prices of the same
 item.
 Since our excess method based on basic-needs is criticised, we can only
 focus on group classification alone.
 So if somebody spends on food a lot more than others, that must be either
 because they have a higher reference or because of a more risk-aversion
 implied.
 The references can be urban or rural areas.
 So if in an urban place consumers have higher prices for food - their food
 expenditure would be higher proportionately - the discussion of whether
 they get higher quality or not is not necessary - they just have higher
 non-durable consumption.
 If they have higher expenditures on clothes let's just record that without
 worrying about excess.
 So instead of excess, if just use c - Psi (Psi obtained from asset-costs).
 The comparison of c would be based on reference.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[ASSET PURCHASES] For definite assets, the status goods increase the long-term
 status- but for goods that are not part of assets they only do it in the
 hope of being rich or acting like rich - and they don't affect probability
 - only value with respect to reference.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Questions and Answers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Causality and Needs Interpretation of status
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Does status consumption increases one's probability or instead does perceived
 probability cause status consumption.
 The effect of status consumption is not measurable - i.e.
 we don't measure how much status consumption improves one's income.
 It is the latter that existence of competition requires one to increase
 status consumption.
 A certain probability of transition from wealth bands is therefore reflected
 in status consumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Does status consumption change real probability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No.
 In the short run, it does not make any difference - how could status consumptio
n change the exogenous probability of asset transition? They change the
 interaction and position consumers but their long-term effects are slow
 (not immediate) and occur with other changes.
 The tendencies to compete within one's group are innate - and we don't
 really participate with a known probability to win.
 What is certain however, is that we like being ahead of others.
 We are a competitive species and are wired for trying to get ahead of others
 who we see and interact with.
 Again, non-durable status consumption is futile except as external needs
 of the consumer.
 While we may call status consumption futile, we can't ignore the fact that
 the consumers get utility as direct value from status consumption with
 respect to a reference - which we infer with asset bands.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Are multiple hierarchies relevant
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have gone about creating LR and NR.
 But that seems misinformed unless we assumed multiple reference points.
 Dynamic reference points in status consumption would be where - consumers
 are not sure if they want to associate themselves with a local hierarchy
 or the higher hierarchy.
 But we've already seen that local hierarchy is more relevant - so it's
 probably worth to the just carry on with local reference assumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Do we have status goods being measured
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
No we're just considering all consumption and assuming nothing as status
 - all consumption can result in status.
 We don't fix anything as basic needs any more so even rice can give status.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
btprint "btPrintCited"
bibfiles "../../africa_attitudes"
options "IEEEtran"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
