#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass extarticle
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{mathtools}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{xparse}
\tolerance=1
\emergencystretch=\maxdimen
\hyphenpenalty=10000
\hbadness=10000
\usepackage{soul}
\usepackage{natbib}
\usepackage{color, colortbl}
\usepackage[first=0,last=9]{lcg}
\definecolor{Gray}{gray}{0.9}
\definecolor{LightCyan}{rgb}{0.88,1,1}
\newcommand{\ra}{\rand0.\arabic{rand}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
theorems-ams-extended
theorems-sec
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "tgtermes" "Charter"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\headheight 2.5cm
\headsep 2.5cm
\columnsep 1.2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Research Question
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%[Purpose and dynamics of wealth]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%Since everything is energy and entropy, the real economy is not fundamentally
 different.
 The individuals - considered as dynasties - consume energy within certain
 limits.
 More of us require more energy.
 But all else we need is social - and therefore tied to a band.
 In the long-term equilibrium, which is where we live, or social needs are
 balanced with the income so that we need that higher income to stay in
 the current social (band) position.
 Our income don't accumulate in the long-run so that social needs are fulfilled.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Literature Survey
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Model without Probability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consumers can move to a certain region with higher mobility and better income
 - and they can also stay in the same area and hope for unlikely mobility.
 We use a model to movement not for income but for mobility i.e.
 we consider an environment where mobility is not possible in an environment
 - while income could be higher or lower in the target location.
 The consumer households are dynasties in this setup.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The utility the consumers gets is from overall maximisation of long-term
 asset values.
 There are no-status concerns other than accumulation of wealth i.e.
 status is interpreted only wealth accumulation in the long-term.
 Thus any status for the consumer is derived through the utility she gets
 from accumulated wealth.
 There are no status or positional concerns the consumers optimise other
 than assets.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The relative income concerns mean that wealth matters less to the consumer
 in a poor area.
 So while consumers don't achieve status from money, their utility from
 wealth is different in poorer than it is in richer areas.
 There is no direct utility from income - instead the utility from wealth
 varies in the environment of varied probability of mobility.
 The area-wealth-level relative to which utility from wealth is higher or
 lower in an area is represented as the reference level 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{j\in\mathscr{J}}$
\end_inset

 - where 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathscr{J}$
\end_inset

 is the set of areas.
 The probability of mobility is related with average wealth or the reference
 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{j}$
\end_inset

 exogenously.
 The utility from assets in this variant of the model matters only with
 respect to the local reference 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{j}$
\end_inset

.
 The consumer can therefore substitute moving to richer area with being
 relatively rich in a poorer area.
 The drop (see below) in utility by moving should still be there - since
 movement is not always possible - but the consumer also has the hope to
 move up because of local hierarchy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are two types of moves that the consumer consider.
 First, the horizontal move which encapsulate the movements to another location
 with a different distributions as well as level of income while maintaining
 the same relative income position.
 Second, the vertical move which means a movement towards higher income
 rank measured with respect to the location where consumer migrates from.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the long-term equilibrium - considering either horizontal or vertical
 moves, the following conditions may lead to a steady state
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The wealth being accumulated is under risk i.e.
 it resets for the dynasties all over economy every now and then
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The consumers have a finite-time horizon (which we have not considered)
 that resets their wealth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The consumers balance their gains in income with consumption in the long-run.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of above, we have ruled out the finite-time horizon solution which may be
 more suitable for econometric applications and is not distinguishable from
 constant wealth of a dynasty.
 Since we're not looking for questions related to consumption so the last
 option is also indistinguishable from constant wealth for the dynasty.
 Wealth at risk may allow us to focus on accumulation and expenses that
 may enhance positioning in society.
 The particular questions we are interested are
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
whether relative income concerns suggest a natural reluctance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
how household investments in relative income improvements influence migration
 initiative
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We compare two variants of the model.
 In the first-variant, ...
 .
 In the second variant, ...
 .
 In the first-variant of the model, we assume that consumers maximise overall
 assets subject to needs and would eventually reach an equilibrium where
 a consumer can no longer move to a richer place that provides higher income
 and thus wealth.
 The limitation to the places imposes a heavy cost (either to utility or
 to the money) - but there is always some place that is available to every
 consumer.
 One region 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{j\in\mathscr{J}}$
\end_inset

out of the finite regions is thus always available for the consumer.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
First Variant
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A key feature in this first variant - which would be compared with , the
 consumers optimise the total 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 assets without any relevance of a reference group.
 In other words, there is no difference between utility from assets in the
 poorer or richer location.
 With no relative concerns in the first variant, there is no incentive to
 be in a poorer area - except a drop in utility or a rise in cost-function
 implied by constraints.
 These are necessary for a long-term equilibrium.
 These constraints are general enough that they are shared with the second-varia
nt that allows for relative concerns.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Pros and Cons of the cost-function approach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are pros and cons for cost-function rise and utility drop approaches.
 The cost-function is a more direct interpretation of constraints imposed
 by population limits or political stability but using it implies that an
 equivalent must be used for the second variant where reference point matters.
 Another approach is to use the shape of the utility function itself to
 to differentiate the a consumer in the rich area from the poor area - which
 is based on the argument that consumers self-regulate movement to a richer
 area due to poorer utility.
 This second approach makes it difficult to have a fair comparison between
 the first and second variants.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

natural
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 constraints on horizontal move must be interpreted as self-regulation behaviour
 of the consumer.
 The decline in utility through self-regulation means something specific
 to the consumer - which is an indirect representation of constraint on
 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

.
 Either self-regulation mechanism or movement-costs are meant to represent
 the decline in quality that occurs with horizontal move of the consumer.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Note that population is not the only possible criterion of stability.
 Theoretically, the utility discouragement itself could include the population
 statistic needed for stability.
 The interpretation of either physical constraint or utility discouragement
 is the decline in quality that occurs due to migration.
 We could think of it as the value of money from assets that you get with
 large-scale migration.
 More population would mean less jobs and therefore more costs of living
 on average.
 Barring extreme segregation that a society is comfortable with, this would
 lead to lowering of the quality of life so that the utility from assets
 declines as migration increases.
 If we're no concerned with population per se, we have to assume that consumers
 can come and go - but their utility from assets decline.
 Eventually, this is related with a population or state of other consumers.
 If it were a simulation, consider all consumers with no wealth in the beginning
 - they must all move further but two things inhibit their moves i) cost
 to make a big jump and ii) decline in quality when too many of them jump
 (regardless of when).
 The utility of the consumers depends on the history of movements in some
 way - so that too many past movements decline quality of living.
 Population of consumers or another population statistic e.g.
 average wealth, average income is the only way to measure the history or
 state of the consumers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A vertical move is not meant to subject to a movement cost and encompasses
 any positive externality from being in a rich area.
 The vertical movement may have a higher or lower costs for the consumer.
 When the consumers undergo a horizontal move in the first variant, they
 don't necessarily move to a band of higher income but often to lower relative
 income but higher absolute income.
 Further, the income differences cannot be static and a consumer moving
 to the other band would also change the income.
 The horizontal moves also influence the income 
\begin_inset Formula $\iota$
\end_inset

 - as labour income would also decline when the utility declines due to
 labour movement.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Choice of Movement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the parametrisation of the movement choice is the permission
 of a substitution between moving to a richer place and staying at poorer
 place.
 If movement choice is not discrete, then there must be a continuous set
 of income bands - correspond to a continuous choice of income, so that
 the consumer would choose a position between poorer and richest region
 subject to a loss in wealth.
 We find the movement up in a continuous band - hard to compare with concerns
 of reference point - which is an important feature of the second variant.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the equilibrium, the migrations have already happened so that the consumer
 does not gain anything by moving.
 We are not concerned with how this equilibrium is achieved.
 Any gain in utility from higher by moving to a higher region is a balanced
 by loss in utility implied by the move.
 Consider the poorest consumer in the economy who would be stable at the
 poorest position.
 Any income she gets would be balanced by the cost of move (or the drop
 in utility in case of a voluntary move).
 The rich consumer evidently remains rich in this scenario and the poorer
 area remains poorer - representing the inequalities in the economy - or
 structural differences brought about by immigration so that the richer
 consumer never trades places with the poorer person.
 The rich can indeed move to poor - but has no reason to if it's the assets
 it is maximising.
 The cost-functions represent the first-mover advantages that both the variants
 are subjected to.
 More specifically, the costs ensure that the consumers can't move after
 a certain point.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Price of Horizontal Move
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An important mechanism for the model is the substitution between moving
 away from location 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 and saving while staying at the location 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

.
 The price associate with the horizontal move away provides the budget constrain
t or the cost-function constraint needed for such a substitution.
 The price is lower for a lower 
\begin_inset Formula $\iota$
\end_inset

 than it is for higher 
\begin_inset Formula $\iota$
\end_inset

 and is not undefined for a large move.
 If someone with very high wealth comes to the society - she would eventually
 be able to buy her place in an appropriate band 
\begin_inset Formula $r_{j}$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Whether the starting wealth is included or not, the choice which the consumer
 chooses between is saving in order maximise the asset-accumulation (until
 it's reset) and moving to another location at a cost to use the rest of
 the time until the reset.
 Notice that the move from 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 is not probabilistic and provides a definite position at a certain cost.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%[issue of limits on delta]
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Income, Assets and Needs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The resetting prevents the needs to starting wealth.
 The alternative is to use a starting wealth - which would be the only reason
 for differences in consumer choices.
 Unless starting wealth is dynamically set, it would have to be exogenous
 in the setting.
 The resetting of wealth addresses this dynamism without using initial wealth.
 With the resetting of wealth, the differences in consumer choices may arise
 either out of self-regulation among consumers or rise in movement costs.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%[Initial wealth and its effect on income or growth-rate]
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The incomes may depend on assets because the consumers pay out of assets
 to get services when the wealth differences are sufficiently high.
 Incomes are always payments for services in an economy - where some services
 are rewarded more than the other.
 Due to structural differences in asset bands, a poorer band consumer cannot
 always perform the tasks performed by the higher band.
 So incomes function are necessarily dependent on past assets.
 Only those with high assets can have income and therefore income is proportiona
l to the wealth of the individual.
 In a dynamic model, this income setting, the market for jobs where services
 are advertised and compensated for, might be slower than accumulation -
 since the consumers either consume or spend.
 Since we don't look for substitution between consumption and saving, we
 assume that consumption too is tied with the band and the consumers all
 behave the same way towards consumption.
 Thus, consumers within a band consume the same way - except for the stochastic
 needs variable.
 Further, the future wealth of poorer or richer consumers is not driven
 by their consumption choices.
 Instead, the social needs (expenditure) in the long-term equilibrium would
 be matched by the asset-dependent wealth and the contribution to savings
 would be nearly zero.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let needs be defined by 
\begin_inset Formula $\eta_{t}(r)$
\end_inset

 so that in the long-term equilibrium 
\begin_inset Formula $\psi(\Lambda_{t}(r))\rightarrow\eta_{t}(r)$
\end_inset

.
 The initial wealth or initial values of 
\begin_inset Formula $A_{t}$
\end_inset

 cannot influence the consumer choice for movement in the long-run if the
 effect of 
\begin_inset Formula $\psi(\Lambda_{t}(r))$
\end_inset

 dominating the effect of initial assets.
 The income 
\begin_inset Formula $\psi(\Lambda_{t}(r))$
\end_inset

 - which is balanced consumers needs - depends on band or rank 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 rather than the initial wealth.
 To recap, the cost of needs 
\begin_inset Formula $\eta_{t}(r)$
\end_inset

 (inclusive of social needs) would match the incomes in the long-term equilibriu
m so that
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
\psi(\Lambda_{t}(r)) & =\eta_{t}(r)
\end{align*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Long term equilibrium
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One reason for our preference for the cost-function approach is that the
 dependence of self-regulation utility on the state of migration locations
 (either as average assets of the consumers or the population) may be difficult
 to separate from that a reference.
 Another reasons is a substitution between vertical and horizontal movement
 is defined easier if utility is concerned only with vertical ranks and
 horizontal place (in a zone) alone.
 In the band of incomes we have considered, the consumer could move to another
 position (a better job) but too many consumers making the same choice would
 bring down the average.
 In this interpretation, average assets in a certain region or a band increase
 the utility - not just the private asset accumulation.
 The average are only defined over a population so this setting requires
 us to consider discrete bands 
\begin_inset Formula $M$
\end_inset

 for a population of 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 conumers so that 
\begin_inset Formula $n>M$
\end_inset

.
 With such bands, additional people with more than average assets would
 contribute to everybody fine but less than average would decline utility
 for everybody.
 This enforces the discrete model simply because we separate between utility
 from average assets and utility from private assets.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The issue now is how assets accumulation and average decline.
 The dynamic version of the model would be where asset-average are based
 on past moves.
 For simplicity, consider the averages that matter are only those from the
 last move.
 Thus every consumer 
\begin_inset Formula $j\in[1,n]$
\end_inset

 could move to another band 
\begin_inset Formula $M$
\end_inset

 and carry a higher average.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The stability conditions apply here just the same for the long-term equilbrium
 so that the population is the constant in all bands and the consumer gain
 nothing by moving away.
 This means that if one of the consumers moves up next level or even higher,
 then decline in average would be so that she is better off staying where
 she is.
 So from position 
\begin_inset Formula $x\in[1,M-1]$
\end_inset

, the consumer could move to 
\begin_inset Formula $i$
\end_inset

 where 
\begin_inset Formula $x+1\le i\le M-1$
\end_inset

, where asset average 
\begin_inset Formula $\Lambda$
\end_inset

 could decline.
 If we don't consider population stability and assume that assets always
 increase in this economy, then we only need to ensure that consumers would
 arrive at an equilibrium by having the optimal utility in their bands.
 The population may be unstable but the movement away would be infeasible
 and the consumer may or may not want to move back (as their upward and
 downward movement need not be balanced).
 The key controls in the model that influence the choice to stay are the
 cost of move and the utility from average.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Considering two bands for simplicity (in order to contrast the first and
 second variants), the consumers could either be in the richer or the poorer
 band.
 The consumer in the poorer band 1 would see no reason to move up to the
 band 2 as the cost of the move would be balanced by the decline in utility
 after moving to band 2.
 This is a balance in limit.
 So practically, this should be possible but we're looking at the marginal
 (last) consumer who would tip the average over just to the level where
 it matches the cost of move.
 We assume that there is at least one consumer left in the poor band to
 make this possible.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Choices for Horizontal and Vertical Movements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When labour moves and the utility decline the labour income would also decline.
 Since we're looking into migration problems, the fundamental question is
 whether we're looking into a horizontal move i.e.
 the move to a different region (and a different hierarchy) or a vertical
 move - i.e.
 movement within hierarchy.
 When consumers move in an environment where average assets and absolute
 wealth both matter, then their moves also are about maximising average
 wealth (i.e.
 increasing amenities) and achieving higher relative income.
 Moving to a lower position in hierarchy can be in a richer place or a poorer
 place - with the former preferred over the other.
 The choice of move in the model is that of moving region or settings of
 hierarchy - the labor income itself is not exercised a choice by the model.
 Nobody really chooses to increase their income by staying locally.
 All what they can do is to invest so as to increase their income.
 Since we're focused on wealth maximisation, we put aside income mobility
 achieved by investing in education.
 The charm for horizontal movement is a higher income overall which is good
 for the assets accumulation purposes.
 A consumer would rather have a higher income for the same vertical position.
 For simplicity, let's first consider cases where the number of bands are
 the same.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The more general case is when the consumer moves to another zone with less
 stratification.
 With wealth maximisation, the consumer can move horizontally between zones
 to experience a different income variation or hierarchy.
 A society with more income variation (hierarchy) may be poorer or richer
 than another with less income variation.
 As such, if the average wealth is the same the consumer may want to be
 in less or more varied income society - so long as her own wealth is higher.
 Consider two societies with different variations in comes (hierarchy) where
 the consumer hopes to increase her relative rank.
 Someone moving from society of two classes with a lower class background
 to a society with a middle class position gains a position 
\begin_inset Formula $r=\frac{1}{2}\rightarrow r=\frac{2}{3}$
\end_inset

.
 Someone would feel better by having a higher rank in a two class-society
 and move from 
\begin_inset Formula $r=\frac{2}{3}$
\end_inset

 to 
\begin_inset Formula $r=\frac{2}{2}$
\end_inset

.
 Indeed the highest rank consumer does not gain anything in terms of rank
 by moving to a either of the societies.
 A more realistic definition of ranks which the consumers get utility from
 is one where the populations in these ranks are also considered.
 For now, let's assume that the rank 
\begin_inset Formula $r\in[0,1]$
\end_inset

 is already population adjusted.
 Therefore a consumer pay (receives) an exogenous cost (rebate) for an upward
 (downward) vertical movement in 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By moving across regions, a consumer may gain or lose rank but increase
 or decrease her wealth.
 In the first variant where wealth is all the consumer maximises, the consumer
 does not get any utility from rank unless the wealth accumulation rate
 (income) in lower rank is different from that with a higher rank.
 Since lower jobs are performed by those with lower assets and higher-income
 jobs by those with higher wealth, it is safe to assume that income comes
 from the past average of assets while assets also change with increase
 in income.
 The key feature of the dynamic income adjusts to accumulated assets slower
 than how income accumulates towards assets.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the dynamic model, let's consider a stochastic variable needs 
\begin_inset Formula $\eta_{t}$
\end_inset

 so that the assets which the consumers accumulate evolves as follows
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{alignat}{1}
A_{t} & =A_{t-1}+i_{t}(r)-\eta_{t}(r)\label{eq:Accumulation}
\end{alignat}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The equation only says that a consumer adds to her wealth the residual income
 after paying for her stochastic needs 
\begin_inset Formula $\eta_{t}(r)$
\end_inset

 .
 In this economy, the income 
\begin_inset Formula $i(r,t)$
\end_inset

 depends not on personal attributes but on the local wealth rank 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 which the consumer belongs to in a zone.
 If the average wealth in a band 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 is 
\begin_inset Formula $\Lambda_{t}(r)$
\end_inset

, then the income can be written as 
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align}
i_{t}(r) & =\psi(\Lambda_{t-1}(r))\label{eq:IncomeResponse}
\end{align}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As simple interpretation of 
\begin_inset Formula $\Lambda_{t}$
\end_inset

 would be to define it in terms of the cardinality 
\begin_inset Formula $N(r)$
\end_inset

 of rank 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 as 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
\Lambda_{t}(r) & =\frac{1}{N(r)}\sum^{r}A_{t}
\end{align*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In equilibrium, all consumers with the rank 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 have the same income and a one-to-one correspondence exists between rank
 and income.
 As we have argued earlier, the long-term assets are what shape the consumer
 income.
 The dynamics - which we have discussed before - imply that the response
 of income in Equation 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:IncomeResponse"
plural "false"
caps "false"
noprefix "false"

\end_inset

 slower than the accumulation in Equation 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "eq:Accumulation"
plural "false"
caps "false"
noprefix "false"

\end_inset

.
 So the consumers accumulate immediately, but their income reflects the
 assets with some delay.
 The accumulation seems trivial since it's the same for all consumers in
 a band - except when the choice of movement is considered.
 Even then if all consumers have the same wealth then the movement too would
 be the same.
 Different all-inclusive needs 
\begin_inset Formula $\eta_{t}$
\end_inset

 also depend on the social rank 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 (rather than biological or internal needs that may be the same for everybody)
 and therefore lead to some disposable income which balances out to result
 in steady state 
\begin_inset Formula $A_{t}$
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%[Model without physical move]
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is worth considering what would a long-term equilibrium across zones
 would look like.
 In this consideration, nobody moves away from the local income variation
 (hierarchy).
 In this long-term equilibrium, nobody chooses a horizontal move - since
 cost to move balances the gain in wealth exactly.
 Without the horizontal move and in the absence of status promotion games
 (i.e.
 no probability of movement), the variations in income only comes from the
 local bands which correspond to wealth states.
 Cost-functions can ensure that extreme zonal differences persist despite
 the consumers wanting to move if they could.
 The extremity of wealth differences (much like population) directly contribute
 the income provided to the consumers and the cost-function in the setting.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the same vertical-position 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

, the equilibrium in horizontal moves would mean that the cost of move would
 be balanced by the gain in income i.e.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
\Psi(b_{1},b_{2},r) & \equiv\Lambda_{t}(b_{2},r)-\Lambda_{t}(b_{1},r)
\end{align*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the absence of options to move horizontally, the vertical equilibrium
 is implied by the balancing of investments with rise in income through
 vertical promotion.
 The cost may be negative (or zero) for those who move down the rank as
 they save by moving.
 A consumer would choose 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 in a zone 
\begin_inset Formula $b$
\end_inset

 so that the investments in intergenerational mobility 
\begin_inset Formula $\phi(b,r_{1},r_{2})$
\end_inset

 balance the gain in wealth through upward mobility
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
\phi(b,r_{1},r_{2}) & =\Lambda(b,r_{2})-\Lambda(b,r_{1})
\end{align*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The concern that is important for consumer choice is whether the cost-functions
 
\begin_inset Formula $\Psi(b_{1},b_{2},r)$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $\phi(b,r_{1},r_{2})$
\end_inset

 constrain and thus determine the consumer selections completely.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Equilibrium conditions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Second variant with Reference level wealth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second variant of the model uses the reference level - still without
 any probabilistic move towards mobility.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Model with probability of mobility
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is a further extension of the model where the move to a higher relative
 position is probabilistic.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
