#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lscape}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\columnsep 1.4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
We look at the consumption in Tanzania and compare it with South Africa
 - which may be more socially unequal but is an overall less poor country.
 A country like Tanzania is likely to have more economic inequality and
 less development of common services compared to South Africa.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
instead of classifying beef, pork and goat as varieties of meat, we group
 them together with milk products, lentils and eggs as sources of protein
 - since we view the latter as cheaper sources of protein.
 For similar reasons, when analysing holiday expenses in South African data
 (IES), we don't distinguish between expensive holidays and cheaper holidays
 - but count the expenditure on holidays as expensive non-durable consumption
 under entertainment/household-consumption.
 The grouping of items is intended to achieve both separability and substitution
 for the simple repackaging model in mind.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In many instances, one would find that the consumption items in the developed
 world have no equivalent in the developing country.
 For example, while comparing the Tanzanian data with the South African
 survey (IES), we do not find holiday expenses and car rental in the Tanzanian
 LSMS survey.
 In such cases, there is not much to be gained by sub-dividing the categories.
 Absence of sub-categories of consumption seems to provide a limit on granularit
y of the grouping of items.
 The absence of a sub-category counts as zero consumption in the parent
 category.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We refrain from using detailed price of assets purchased (available in the
 Tanzanian data for 2012) - since recording of assets is different in SA
 IES and TNZ LSMS surveys.
 More particularly, the expenditure on furniture and other assets is a diary
 expenditure in the SA IES data while the assets are recorded separately
 as a recall in the Tanzanian LSMS.
 As far as possible, we avoid mixing results from recall and diary methods
 elsewhere as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We don't make any comparison of ethnicity or social identity data between
 the two countries.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given the different make-up of the two countries, the data for ethnicity
 is not comparable - SA IES records race while the Tanzania LSMS records
 religion and native-language.
 The social identity data is only used for studying segmentation of demand
 within each economy.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
