#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Empirical results in chapters 2 and 3 explore the relation with household
 income as key to how consumption may be limited to the richer sections
 - a finding that has implications for how aspirational consumption would
 rise in the future.
 Examining urbanised areas, the role of household income appears less important
 for education in these chapters than for high quality food.
 The theoretical results stated in the first chapter can be used to explain
 how persistent household income inequalities may influence demand for status-co
nsumption differently for items based on their potential mobility value.
 This is because the status value of high-quality food differs from that
 of education in terms of the future economic benefits the two may provide
 through social positioning.
 Prestigious degrees - after all - are more rewarding than one's fine-dining
 experiences - despite both having some importance to the consumer's future
 wealth.
 In terms of the theoretical model, the expenditure on education therefore
 may offer higher return than high food quality while the participation
 costs for them may vary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So long as such returns can be assumed to be of material significance, the
 main result from the theoretical chapter - of two equilibria in the long-run
 - is pertinent to the empirical results.
 Recall that the two equlibria in the long-run are those where the rich
 participate (Case I) and where both participate (Case III).
 Another result that is of significance is that the poor are likely to participa
te whenever they can afford to.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In case of a binding constraint when the poor are not in a position to participa
te, only the rich participate with their expenditures increasing with wider
 income differences.
 This seems aligned with the case for education in the poorer economy (Taznania)
 and for high-quality food where participation costs seem beyond the means
 of the poor.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With increased urbanisation, however, the role of social capital becomes
 higher and the increased participation of poor with lowered participation
 costs can move the equilibrium to one where both rich and poor participate
 (Case III).
 The relation with inequality remains the same in this latter case so that
 high inequalities may be maintained by high enough participation costs.
 In other words, increased income differences may contribute to rise in
 such expenditures.
 This seems aligned with education expenditure in the urbanised areas of
 Nigeria.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
