#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{tgtermes}
\usepackage{mathtools}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{xparse}
\usepackage{lscape}
\usepackage[section]{placeins}
\usepackage{apacite}
\usepackage{etoolbox}
\patchcmd{\thebibliography}{\section*{\refname}}{}{}{}

% \usepackage[nottoc,numbib]{tocbibind} % package to inc ref in TOC


%\usepackage[backend=bibtex,style=authoryear-comp]{biblatex}
%\addbibresource{C:/local_files/research/africa_attitudes}


%\usepackage{natbib}
\usepackage{titlesec}
\usepackage{bbm}


\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{sectsty}
\tolerance=1
\emergencystretch=\maxdimen
\hyphenpenalty=10000
\hbadness=10000

\usepackage{color, colortbl}
\usepackage[first=0,last=9]{lcg}
\usepackage[left,modulo]{lineno}


\usepackage{soul}
\usepackage{color}

\usepackage[absolute]{textpos}


\newcommand{\hlc}[1]{{\sethlcolor{LightCyan}\hl{#1}}}
\newcommand{\hly}[1]{{\sethlcolor{LightYellow}\hl{#1}}}
\newcommand{\hlw}[1]{{\sethlcolor{White}\hl{#1}}}
\newcommand{\hlg}[1]{{\sethlcolor{LightGreen}\hl{#1}}}

\definecolor{Gray}{gray}{0.9}
\definecolor{LightCyan}{rgb}{0.88,1,1}
\definecolor{LightYellow}{RGB}{255,255,200}
\definecolor{LightGreen}{RGB}{204,255,204}
\definecolor{White}{RGB}{255,255,255}
\newcommand{\ra}{\rand0.\arabic{rand}}

%citation style
%\setcitestyle{authoryear,open={((},close={))}} 

\makeatletter
\@addtoreset{section}{part}
\def\@part[#1]#2{%
    \ifnum \c@secnumdepth >\m@ne
      \refstepcounter{part}%
      \addcontentsline{toc}{part}{\thepart\hspace{1em}#1}%
    \else
      \addcontentsline{toc}{part}{#1}%
    \fi
    {\parindent \z@ \raggedright
     \interlinepenalty \@M
     \normalfont\centering
     \ifnum \c@secnumdepth >\m@ne
       \large\bfseries \partname\nobreakspace\thepart
       \par\nobreak
     \fi
     \huge \bfseries #2%
     \markboth{}{}\par}%
    \nobreak
    \vskip 3ex
    \@afterheading}
\renewcommand\partname{Topic}
\makeatother
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2.5cm
\headsep 2.5cm
\footskip 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part*
Response to Examiners' Report
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The examiner's report on the viva conducted on 2023-03-06 highlighted considerab
le shortcomings in how the thesis contents were organised.
 The report recommended a cautious definition of the scope of the thesis
 particularly in relation to how aspirational consumption had been defined
 in the thesis.
 The comments asked for a clearer connection with the literature on conventional
 views of aspirational consumption as visible consumption.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Thesis Changes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Organisation-related Changes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A preface and an epilogue have been added to the thesis in order to better
 motivate the topic and to provide a thread connecting the three chapters.
 The abstract as well as parts of the chapters have been changed to align
 with this thread.
 As suggested in the viva examination, the third chapter has been rewritten
 substantially.
 The re-organisation of the chapters has also resulted in making the theoretical
 chapter as the first chapter - which now discusses the theoretical concerns
 with the view of status consumption used in the thesis.
 Following is a summary of changes that are applicable to the thesis overall.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A preface has been added to highlight the particular notion of status consumptio
n - highlighting key results from the empirical chapter while discussing
 the research question in more concrete terms.
 The problems with definition of status consumption are detailed in both
 the preface and the theoretical chapter - which now is the first chapter
 in the thesis.
 As suggested in the examiners' report, this first theoretical chapter also
 discusses real-life problems that the model in the chapter attempts to
 address.
 The scope of the specific view of status consumption has also been detailed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The introduction section from all the chapters has been reduced.
 Much of the content to motivate the thread has now been moved to a Preface.
 The Literature Survey sections have also been streamlined to address the
 specific problem explored by each chapter.
 The contribution of the chapter to the existing literature has also been
 highlighted (PENDING: evaluation of the extent to which litsurvey highlights
 contribution).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The first chapter which starts the discussion on status consumption is now
 a theoretical chapter.
 The empirical chapters are presented subsequently as instances of status-relate
d consumption in sub-Saharan Africa.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The discussion of social determinants takes more inputs from sociology literatur
e.
 A commentary on social determinants has now been replaced with specific
 social factors such as occupational categories, parental educational background
 and local wealth in the region.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
An epilogue now summarises the findings from the three chapters and discusses
 conclusions pertaining to the research question detailed in the preface.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Formatting -related changes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
APA-style citations have now been used throughout the chapters.
 Further, narrative citations have been adopted wherever the references
 were part of the sentences/narration.
 The parenthetical citations followed the APA-style elsewhere.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Instances of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

e.g.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 were replaced with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

e.g.,
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
newpage
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Chapter-Specific Changes
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Changes in Theoretical Chapter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The chapter has undergone a substantial rewrite.
 The model has been changed and solved analytically without resorting to
 any arbitrary probability functions of income mobility.
 Following is a summary of changes made in response to the suggestions made
 in the report.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The model is related with a uniform distribution of performance-affecting
 variables in the population.
 The chapter no longer relates the model with contest theory.
 A contrast against the contest theory literature has also been added.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The scope of the model and its stated goals are narrowed.
 The crucial assumption of social goals tied with economic goals has been
 explained in greater detail.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A discount factor has been introduced in the model.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The chapter clarifies that consumption is being viewed simply as an investment
 in mobility related consumption.
 Due to economic goals being assumed as being tied with social goals, the
 scope of status investments is limited to those where such competitions
 of attributes are relevant.
 A tennis game analogy - which is similar to small-scale interviews or competiti
ons - has been explained in the introduction of the chapter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The chapter discusses important contributions to the literature - including
 Dugar, Bhattacharya & Reiley (2012), Moldovanu, Sela & Shi (2007), Truyts
 (2010) and Roychowdhury (2016).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Changes in First Empirical Chapter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Notice that the first empirical chapter is now the second chapter in the
 thesis.
 Following changes were made based on the suggestions in the report.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
It has been explained that the relationship of household permanent income
 with consumption of high-quality food is only relevant for exploring how
 status consumption may be limited to richer households.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The choice of Tanzania has been discussed in more detail.
 The sociological evidence for food carrying status in the Tanzanian society
 has also been discussed in detail.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The mentions of intergenrational wealth have been removed from the analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Charts and Figures have been corrected based on the suggestions in the report.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Changes in Second Empirical Chapter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Notice that the second empirical chapter is now the third chapter in the
 thesis.
 Following changes were made based on the suggestions in the report.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The chapter introduction explains that the exploration of the role of household
 permanent income (total expenditure) is the main purpose of the empirical
 analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The chapter explains that education is not considered aspirational in the
 strictest sense but is only explored as consumption of status value.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The attempts to measure urbanisation have been dropped.
 Instead, the local wealth measure is discussed as one of the main explanatory
 variables - leaving urban-rural distinctions only as a means to compare
 the analysis with a more conventional one.
 As suggested in the report, the chapter no longer discusses asset ownership
 as the measure of urbanisation or of concentration of assets.
 Instead, average assets in the district are discussed plainly as a measure
 of local wealth.
 This approach had been one of the choices that were suggested in the examiners'
 report.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The discussion of asset-density has been removed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The analysis focuses on the household permanent income as one of the explanatory
 variables - instead of presenting permanent income as a means to under
 wealth effects on education.
 The wealth effects are still mentioned in the chapter - but only to motivate
 the use of household permanent income as one of the main explanatory variables.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
As suggested in the report, a summary for Behrman and Knowles (1999) paper
 as well as Glewwe & Jacoby (2004) has been added.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
An explanation of why Tanzania and Nigeria were chosen for the analysis
 is provided.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The sample selection issue and the issue of endogeneity (due to education
 expenditure occurring both in the dependent variable and independent variable)
 have been explained in the chapter.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The mentions of intergenrational wealth have been removed from the analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The explanations for why mother's education wasn't used has been added.
 The number of secondary-schools per district are explained as one of the
 control variables.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
References to causality have been avoided while keeping the focus on the
 exploration of the role of household permanent income on education expenditure.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
