#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lscape}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\columnsep 1.4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Two uncertainties are being sold as something novel.
 But the focus should be on Euler equations.
 I think there should be some background of multiple uncertainties in the
 intertemporal substitution and that Friedman acknowledges them in the role
 of different types of wealth.
 Types of wealth account for different uncertainties in the Euler equation.
 We should focus on that uncertainty in 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 should be separate from uncertainty in 
\begin_inset Formula $i$
\end_inset

 the Euler equation.
 The simplification we offer is that uncertainty in 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 reflects itself in quality (habits that are sustained) and the long-term
 economic plans are set based on rises in income - which are observed in
 cash and correspond to a different type of wealth.
 The current focus on long-term vs short-term seems rather forced.
 It seems to motivate a model for descriptive behaviour (in that the consumers
 are concerned with non-economic variables in the short-term more than they
 are in the long-term) and then tries to withdraw from the attempt of descriptiv
e behaviour.
 When the real reason to consider two uncertainties is not the description
 of consumer behaviour, a discussion of a model for consumer habits is vastly
 unnecessary.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It makes sense to see the effect of the types of wealth on the perceptions
 that drive saving - noting at the same time that saving is a long-term
 commitment and consumption a short term commitment.
 One could say that certain risks matter less to the wealthy than to others.
 The probabilistic interpretation of wealth is what gives us a certain ontologic
al sense of status.
 High 
\begin_inset Formula $A_{t}$
\end_inset

 would give a different motivation to purchase than low 
\begin_inset Formula $A_{t}$
\end_inset

.
 But that is not all, the peer effect model also needs to be incorporated
 so that a consumer with a higher 
\begin_inset Formula $\nu$
\end_inset

 and thereby higher 
\begin_inset Formula $c_{t}$
\end_inset

 benefits more.
 The loglinear utility can reflect this behaviour - but the peer effects
 need to be talked about.
 We have ignored 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 in the utility so far.
 This makes little sense.
 If education or occupation is counted as asset then we need to stick that
 into the Euler equations as well.
 If not, we need to see how consumers with different 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 behave in the intertemporal condition.
 The effect of education is usually sought with different discount factors
 (this can be incorporated only when a stochastic dynamic optimisation is
 considered).
 The major question we need to address is whether 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 is part of utility or not.
 If it is, then we need to endogenise it the way we have endogenised 
\begin_inset Formula $A_{t}$
\end_inset

 i.e.
 associate expenditure on education to its acquisition.
 That seems unnecessary given that we don't have any changes in education
 (although we do have expenditure on education).
 The cost-factor 
\begin_inset Formula $p(A_{t},\rho)$
\end_inset

 may represent the external needs or peer effects - which may include education.
 One way to endogenise 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 variables can be the discretisation of the set of variables let's say occupatio
n, education and region.
 If one may assume that occupation is a better indicator of status-utility
 than education, then the three variables be combined into one 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 variable - let's call it the social rank.
 The social rank variable 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 would thus be one-dimensional variable that can be included in the utility.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 is not included in the utility, then it needs to be associated with some
 other model variable which the consumer gets utility from.
 If those who have higher status due to education need to spend less quality,
 then we need to identify some variable that those education and occupation
 have more of - so that they can have the same utility as somebody who doesn't
 have education.
 If someone doesn't get utility from education directly, what else does
 education improve.
 If we use peer-effects then education would be included.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The interpretation of 
\begin_inset Formula $p(A_{t},\rho)$
\end_inset

 needs to connected with the costs interpretation.
 I had made it somewhat a preconditioning filter to quality exercised by
 the consumer.
 In that sense, the filter is not merely the costs but a quantification
 of variety in the basket as well.
 That sense hasn't been included in the model yet.
 The cost factor can be included in the peer-effects or include the external
 needs of the consumer.
 It is worthwhile going to the ideas that prices where an item is unavailable
 is infinite (literature on constrained demand) - thus bringing back price
 of quality - or reintroduce a quality constraint by using infinite price.
 Unfortunately, however, only using 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 rather than 
\begin_inset Formula $q$
\end_inset

 restricts our ability to differentiate a overconsumption from the constrained
 quality.
 If we don't have price in the equation we can't have effect of prices -
 that much should be clear.
 The effect of region could be added by sticking in a cost for those who
 live in the area with more options - but that would be a fake cost.
 In the stochastic model, more options would increase the risk of improving
 quality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second incomplete analysis is due to effects of asset.
 People would be loss averse after getting rich (or acquiring wealth).
 This could likely be the variable that we may be looking for.
 Those who have acquired wealth (or education or attained a high occupation)
 may be unwilling to take risk and thus spend more on education etc.
 - they should spend less on quality.
 Education thus brings costs to the consumer (does that make sense?).
 If we combined 
\begin_inset Formula $\rho$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $A_{t}$
\end_inset

 into a combined variable, then we could consider the risk as well.
 In the non-stochastic model, this would merely be the cost function 
\begin_inset Formula $p(A_{t},\rho)$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the stochastic model, the idea that 
\begin_inset Formula $\sigma$
\end_inset

 is not observed needs to be justified.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
