#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Before determining a mathematical relationship, one needs to be sure of
 what parameters affect affordability or scarcity.
 The underlying mechanism we wish to model is one where scarcities develop
 through physical availability and social communication.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The two critetria used to measure the degree of scarcity of a certain commodity
 are its availability and affordability.
 The availability is measured by the percentage of population that uses
 the commodity.
 For initial tests, any commodity used by 40% or less of the population
 can be considered scarce.
 This is not meant to be a hardset boundary - a percentage is chosen only
 to see how our notion of scarcity may vary with respect to this threshold
 of usage.
 If one wants to consider an item used by just 10% of the population as
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

available
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 for example, then the argument of its scarcity would be weak.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The measurement for affordability is less straitghtforward and needs some
 clarification of what is meant by affordability.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The median ratio of consumptoin of an item with respect to the median total
 expenditure can be a crude measure of affordability.
 But such an aggreate measure of affordability is merely a restatement of
 availability (at various prices).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Separating Affordability from Availability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One view is to separate affordability from availability is to differentiate
 between what people can buy and what they wish to buy.
 Strictly speaking, what the consumer can buy is determined by looking at
 supply (rather than consumption).
 Physical scarcities - therefore - cannot be interpreted from consumption
 surveys.
 With revealed preference methods, one can only determine the social scarcities.
 Any method that doesn't involve price of the items and bases itself on
 expenditure of the population on the commodity alone - e.g.
 one the ratio of median expenditure with median income ignores this observation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The reason behind considering availability from affordability is merely
 to account for regional differences.
 Behind the view of availability as a criterion of scarcity is the assertion
 that availability should be considered separately from affordability in
 the developing world.
 In other words, the issue of low supply is different from that of no supply.
 This need arises solely because of acute differences between urban centres
 and rural areas in the developing world - that appear in data analysis
 with significance of region dummies.
 In face of such severe differences, one must consider that certain items
 are simply not available.
 Their lack of availability makes them a direct scarcity.
 When things are simply not available, one cannot talk about their expenditure
 elasticities nor even treat them as a physical scarcity.
 Availability is to highlight the state of negligible supply.
 Everything else falls under affordability.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With that clairifcation, it must be noted that both availability and affordabili
ty constitute supply side issues.
 In other words, supply of an item can be low enough to make in 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

unavailable
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 or less affordable owing to market forces.
 Consdering an average individual - who can afford certain items while not
 others - one can define affordable goods as all that have non-zero quantities
 on the utility curve with a given budget constraint (total expenditure).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Measuring Affordability
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With this definition of affordability, one can arrive at a rank of affordability
 by observing the lowest non-zero quantity on the utility curve (of the
 average individual).
 The problem then becomes of fitting this utility curve (or the function
 that exists for every commodity).
 To simplify this, one may consider that a utility function for every individual
 is 
\begin_inset Formula $u=f(q_{1},q_{2}...q_{n})$
\end_inset

 for 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 commodities in the consumer universe.
 We don't have income information and budget constraint is simply 
\begin_inset Formula $\Sigma q_{i}$
\end_inset

 (which could clearly be met for every individual).
 In a simple case, every consumer wishes to maximize utility with quantities
 
\begin_inset Formula $q_{1},q_{2}...q_{n}$
\end_inset

 - it safe to assume that these a consumer would like to have highest as
 possible of these quantities.
 The utility function then becomes purely a choice of convenience and might
 require some more understanding of equilibrium conditions for application
 in a case where only quantities are available (used in Heffetz).
 If we get the parameters of the utlity function, it would give us an idea
 of how affordable every quantity is (i.e.
 how much the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

average
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 consumer weighs for the utility function).
 If quantity is near zero for the average consumer, we consider it not affordabl
e.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Loosely speaking - if items A and B are bought by 90% and 50% of the population,
 it only marks the 
\series bold
popularity 
\series default
of the item - not its affordability.
 More popular items may or may not be scarce.
 With popularity, there are both positive and negative effects - more popular
 items leave scope for signal and less popular items also leave scope for
 signaling.
 The combined effect may leave us at an equilibrium popularity - determined
 by market and society.
 Popularity can be because of item's need as well - and might be for items
 that are not scarce at all.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For every individual an item is more affordable if it's cost is within the
 threshold percentage of the (permanent) income.
 This however is also problematic.
 People could spend a lot on the rice (or buy just rice) - but that doesn't
 make rice unaffordable.
 At least semantically, affordability is about price in the market.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Scarcity Maps
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Scarcity maps can be drawn for every commodity.
 If commodities are ranked by scarcity, they would be very likely to be
 visible.
 Within those that are scarce, the visible commodities (i.e.those that are
 talked about often in society) might have higher income elasticities and
 exhibit variations across social clusters.
 The analysis looks at overall alignment of visible ranking with that of
 scarcity ranking.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Lagrange Multiplier Example
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As an example one can look at the maximization of curvey 
\begin_inset Formula $f(x,y)=x^{2}+y^{2}$
\end_inset

 subject to constraint 
\begin_inset Formula $2x+3y=5$
\end_inset

.
 Note that we don't really have a budget constraint available - because
 we don't have prices for the items.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
