#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{align*}
\int_{0}^{1}{\int_{0}^{1}{(P(\text{win}|r_{1},s_{1})dr_{1})}ds_{1}}
\end{align*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{multline*}
P(\text{win}|r_{1},s_{1})=\begin{cases}
\frac{(\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1})^{2}}{2\mu(1-\mu)} & 0<\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1}<\mu\\
\frac{r_{1}-\mu/2}{1-\mu} & \mu<\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1}<1-\mu\\
1-\frac{(\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1}-1)^{2}}{2\mu(1-\mu)} & 1-\mu<\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1}<1\\
0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\end{multline*}

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{multline*}
P(\text{win}|r_{1},s_{1})=\begin{cases}
\frac{(\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1})^{2}}{2\mu(1-\mu)} & -\frac{(1-\mu)s_{1}}{\mu}<r_{1}<1-\frac{(1-\mu)s_{1}}{\mu}\\
\frac{r_{1}-\mu/2}{1-\mu} & 1-\frac{(1-\mu)s_{1}}{\mu}<r_{1}<\frac{(1-\mu)(1-s_{1})}{\mu}\\
1-\frac{(\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1}-1)^{2}}{2\mu(1-\mu)} & \frac{(1-\mu)(1-s_{1})}{\mu}<r_{1}<\frac{1-(1-\mu)s_{1}}{\mu}\\
0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{cases}
\end{multline*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{multline*}
\int_{0}^{1}{(P(\text{win}|r_{1},s_{1})dr_{1})}=\int_{0}^{1-\frac{(1-\mu)s_{1}}{\mu}}\frac{(\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1})^{2}}{2\mu(1-\mu)}dr_{1}\\
+\int_{1-\frac{(1-\mu)s_{1}}{\mu}}^{\frac{(1-\mu)(1-s_{1})}{\mu}}\frac{r_{1}-\mu/2}{1-\mu}dr_{1}\\
+\int_{\frac{(1-\mu)(1-s_{1})}{\mu}}^{\frac{1-(1-\mu)s_{1}}{\mu}}(1-\frac{(\mu r_{1}+(1-\mu)s_{1}-1)^{2}}{2\mu(1-\mu)})
\end{multline*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hi Rukmini,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thanks for the pakhawaj idea.
 I am indeed planning to take it with me - just that I wasn't sure how formal/pe
rsonal the training might be.
 I did want to avoid it becoming a distraction (esp if the programme has
 a certain structure).
 I'll check with the organisers either way.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I completely agree with the fundamental difference between scholarly and
 faith-driven perspectives.
 I used to think that learning Sanskrit might help me better understand
 the original texts, but the more I learn, the more I feel that there is
 a lot that is left to interpretation even in the original texts.
 It seems that a guru/traditional-perspective is often implicit in the interpret
ation of the texts.
 A lot of them having commentaries after commentaries (bhaashya) also seem
 to suggest that the older texts might have been used as teaching-notes
 rather than accurate descriptions of the world the way one might expect
 them to be in this age.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While I haven't read anything more than the Vivekananda's translation, I
 have a feeling that Yoga sutras may be such a text as well.
 That said, it was a while back when I read the translation.
 In those days, I thought that the Sanskrit grammarian and Yogasutra's author
 were the same person and remember expected similar rigour.
 It's definitely something that I am hoping to get into since I appreciate
 meditation more than I did back then.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thanks also for the book recommendation.
 I did read the chapter on Carnatic music and I can see the why chanting
 god's name is such a wide theme in Carnatic compositions.
 Reading about Thyagaraja's massive contribution also reminded me about
 namadeva's yatra (also in the book).
 I recently watched a beautifully rendition here.
 From J Krishnamurthy to Indian Christinaity, the breadth of the book is
 quite interesting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My own experience with religion has not been too religious.
 As you know, Indian traditions in the North are neither obligatory nor
 ideological.
 In fact I only got exposed to some religious literature because my school
 in Varanasi was an old institution established by a Fabian Socialist from
 the 19th century called Annie Besant.
 She had been active in an organisation called Theosophical Society at the
 time.
 The society gathered a lot of ideas from many mystical traditions (including
 Vishnu-Puranas and Tibetan Buddhism) and influenced a lot many people in
 the early 20th century (J Krishamurthy was initially a member).
 While the influence of society was largely gone when I was in school, it
 was hard not be curious about her saintly status in the school.
 Long story short, my readings of religious texts have been mostly investigative
 but I do find that perspectives/tradition shape the world we observe.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I was curious where did you live in India during your time there? Given
 your singing experience in Carnatic music, I had assumed that it might
 have been in the South but I don't recall.
 I am due a trip this October as I haven't been back since early 2020.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
