#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lscape}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\columnsep 1.4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
INTRODUCTION
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is difficult to pin down the definition of a status good.
 Unlike for food, housing where energy physical space or calorific value
 can help us estimate quality chosen by a consumer, status is not so much
 a property of the item consumer as much it is of the society where the
 good is consumed and the social standing that the consumer of the item
 has at the time of consumption.
 We use a simple model of status utility to understand status consumption
 as an expectation of social mobility -so that the utility derived from
 an item (and hence the expenditure) depends on the expected change in the
 consumer's social standing which changes over time as more assets are acquired
 and high-quality items are consumed.
 In the model we outline, we use the definition of an asset - as an item
 intended for long-term usage - to track a consumer's long-term status.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is a significant body of literature that interprets status utility
 imparted to a consumer as a product's visibility - which is measured either
 through direct surveys or purchases in quality.
 We argue that for us to have a general theory of status - the Ireland model's
 inference function-based approach may not be enough - as the severe inequalitie
s in the developing markets reduce the relevance of visibility.
 Further, given the lack of a clear definition of what constitutes visible
 consumption, it becomes difficult to associate visible consumption with
 status.
 With the recent economic developments in the sub-Saharan African countries
 - most particularly due to high levels of urban migration - it is likely
 that the spending patterns would give way to status-related expenditure
 much the way they have elsewhere.
 A model of status in terms of quality and assets is an attempt to quantify
 the conspicuous consumption in a more general context than of the upper-middle
 class developments in the United States where it was originally described
 by Veblen
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "VeblenLeisureClass"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To use a model of status across the developed and the developing world,
 we assume that the consumers associate status to i) 
\series bold
quality of consumption
\series default
 and ii) 
\series bold
permanence of high income
\series default
.
 The two factors are relevant anywhere the evolution of markets permits
 social mobility.
 Without the possibility of markets, status consumption has no role to play
 as there would no signaling of status through consumption to countervail
 the effect of traditional hierarchies on status in a society.
 Not everyone can have the same status - and thus if we were to explain
 status through consumption - we must explain how the distribution of resources
 affect status.
 Any study of status through consumption is in fact limited to measuring
 how segmented or constrained are the supply and demand of the commodities.
 The two parameters of quality and perception of high-income permanence
 emanate out of these two factors - as elite consumption and elite income
 would always lead to an elite-status.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite a significant interest is taken in status consumption in the developing
 countries in the recent years, a comparison of the effect of economic inequalit
ies on status consumption amongst the developing countries or with the developed
 countries has been rarely undertaken.
 It seems obvious that the perceived status differences would be higher
 in a more unequal society - since status perceptions should be aligned
 with economic inequalities.
 However, it can be argued that social inequalities are shaped by historical
 events over a much longer period of time than what consumer surveys are
 conducted over.
 Therefore social inequalities may not always follow economic inequalities
 or economic inequalities may have a smaller effect on status than the social
 ineuqalities that have developed over centuries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A debate on social psychological perceptions of economic conditions is out
 of scope for our study.
 Instead we focus on studying how measures of economic inequalities (proxied
 with assets and measures of status) may relate with status signaling that
 is performed through expensive non-durable consumption i.e.
 the improvement in quality of expenditure.
 We believe that the literature on the behavioural life-cycle model can
 improve our understanding of status related consumption.
 To formulate a model for status, we go beyond the idea of conspicuous consumpti
on - which often limits itself to exclusive consumption by the rich.
 In an environment of severe economic inequalities, the options for conspicuous
 consumption are in fact limited to an even smaller part of the population.
 We thus extend the idea of exclusive consumption to look for instances
 of high quality consumption amongst the different categories in the survey
 where status could be derived from.
 We then inspect how the quality consumption could be related to the ownership
 of assets.
 In Tanzania for example - which we explore in the study - we cannot argue
 that buying clothes indicates higher status signaling without observing
 what the effect of getting electricity or moving to a bigger house may
 have on status (nor can we ignore the possibility that those spending on
 electricity or housing may actually be cutting down on clothing expenditure
 while deriving status from electricity or house ownership).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before we move further with the comparison of status consumption across
 the developing and the developed countries, we need a precise way of measuring
 the i) 
\series bold
quality 
\series default
of consumption and ii) the 
\series bold
social standing
\series default
 of the consumers.
 The standardisation of quality is performed simply by comparing consumer
 baskets between the selected countries.
 Except for some items that would be missing in the developing country,
 this is a relatively easy task if we rely on the availability of price
 information (or average cost of items) by classifying high-quality (expensive)
 items apart from their cheaper substitutes.
 For measuring the differences in social standing (social capital or status
 capital as described in some of the literature 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "UstunerHolt2010"

\end_inset

) of the consumers - which is relatively difficult - we bank on the measures
 of socio-economic-status (SES).
 SES is a standard measure of the socio-economic status often used in the
 sociological and health studies.
 In addition to the parameters used for SES we include the asset ownership
 and quality consumption in the measures for status.
 Thus the long-term status is a vector of income, education, region/locality/nei
ghborhood as well as a history of quality consumption and asset ownership.
 This is in line with the marketing literature on use of assets as identity
 (see Baghchi et al.).
 The inclusion of assets and quality effectively endogenises status in the
 model and relates it with consumption - allowing us to distinguish between
 long-term and short-term status needs of the household.
 This is crucial since every other determinant of status (income, education,
 occupation or residence) is fixed in the short-run.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The accumulation of assets thus serves as one of indicators of stability
 of high income - as we expect individuals to purchase assets only if their
 expectation of stability of income is high (higher than it is when compared
 to the case when they engage in higher quality non-durable consumption).
 To compare the asset accumulation in a developed and a developing country,
 we order assets in the market based on the cost of acquisition.
 The differences in the costs of the two successive assets in the order
 matter present the substitutability between asset acquisition and quality
 consumption.
 A higher difference between two successive asset costs would make the status
 indication through quality more tempting for a consumer.
 The absence of credit - as is often the case in developing countries -
 would make the difference between successive asset costs higher than in
 the developed countries (where markets are more developed and either credit
 to purchase assets or direct rental of assets is available).
 A comparison of status consumption is thus performed by observing expensive
 non-durable consumption relative to the differences between the current
 and next point of asset acquisition in the cost curve of assets over a
 period of time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
LITERATURE SURVEY
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As we have hinted before, the argument that the status differences must
 have an effect on consumption is not as much an economic argument as it
 is a social psychological one.
 To comment on status consumption across countries, one makes the implicit
 assumption that inherently similar economic conditions and same social
 inequalities should result in the same levels of status consumption.
 Without this assumption, one cannot rule out that despite the same observed
 spending on quality, the status differences may be perceived differently
 in one society compared to another with similar distribution of assets.
 A commentary on status through consumption has its limitations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A lot of literature, however draws wide-ranging conclusions simply by observing
 consumption on a limited set of items.
 A vague definition of status consumption helps little in validating such
 conclusions.
 Though not unqualified, these claims leave themselves to a lot of debate
 - e.g.
 do social identities matter despite differences in asset ownership and
 strength of social networks in the countries with non-homoegenous populations,
 does spatial segregation increase or decrease status-consumption and so
 on.
 We believe that economics can only provide pial answers to many of such
 questions - which are intertwined with the social history of the countries
 in the context.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It can also be argued that in the absence of a strong definition of status
 consumption, our 
\shape italic
apriori
\shape default
 knowledge of one group having more status than another can make the higher
 spending on a certain items by the group with lesser status automatically
 appear as an instance of status-indication.
 To elaborate this argument, let's consider social groups A and B with disparate
 levels of consumption on a certain items and with A having higher status
 in the society than B (a fact known as common knowledge).
 If the definition of status items isn't clear and if B hadn't spent disproporti
onately higher on conspicuous items, then either those items would have
 not been seen as conspicuous or we may have concluded that status is indicated
 through other means.
 Without an exact definition of status or a status-item, the uncertainty
 of what constitutes relative conspicuous consumption between the two groups
 is always higher than our own subjective observation of the status of one
 group over that of the other.
 Therefore the use of consumption alone in determining if one group has
 more status than the other is rather problematic.
 We attempt to alleviate this problem by fixing the definition status in
 terms of income, occupation and education - while letting asset purchases
 provide the uncertainty in the short-term .
 While this definition offers less linguistic flexibility than what the
 variety of literature on conspicuous consumption would offer, it helps
 find the limits of a model of status that is based on consumption.
 It cannot be denied that a society where everyone is equally educated with
 similar occupation ranks (income-based) and owns similar assets may still
 have perceived status differences - but our model would predict that the
 differences would be lesser than in one where the differences in education
 and occupation are wider.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We believe that this rudimentary model using the non-durable consumption
 help relate development of markets with consumption.
 It could be possible - for example - to test whether prolonged measures
 of forced economic equality (i.e.
 uniform but depressed asset ownership) can influence non-durable consumption
 asymmetrically when there is a sudden rise in incomes (a problem that may
 be relevant for countries in Africa).
 Friehe et al 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "FrieheGermany"

\end_inset

 perform a similar analysis by comparing the visible consumption in the
 regions of erstwhile East and West Germany and comment on the effect of
 the past stagnant and well-performing states of their respective economies
 on status consumption after reunification.
 If macroeconomic factors and issues of supply (e.g.
 income inequalities, distribution of resources etc.) can be controlled for,
 then such a model for demand can explain the demand pressures induced by
 economic inequalities across countries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While the studies in marketing research have explored conspicuous consumption
 in great detail, the studies in the conventional econometric demand analysis
 have not addressed the topic in nearly the same enthusiasm.
 One reason is the clear lack of data on quality in consumer surveys, another
 reason could also be that the rational consumer of a typical demand analysis
 (who knows all about her future plans) can hardly engage in conspicuous
 consumption.
 As Thaler et al had argued in their influential paper on a behavioural
 life-cycle hypothesis, there should be no overeating and overspending if
 the consumers were rational (see Shefrin-Thaler 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ShefrinThaler1988"

\end_inset

).
 If there is nothing to be gained by conspicuous consumption (i.e.
 Veblen's claim of futility of conspicuous consumption), then there is no
 way for the rational consumer to derive any utility from it.
 However, the mere existence of conspicuous consumption proves that there
 is some utility to be derived by spending on status or quality.
 Ireland model 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ireland_signals,heffetz_visibility"

\end_inset

 - using a visibility factor - argue that the perception of one's income
 by others derives an additional utility (see Heffetz
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "heffetz_visibility"

\end_inset

 for this substantiation and an empirical approach towards the Ireland model).
 As long as conspicuous consumption is exist - one can argue that the visibility
 factor in Ireland model ought to be non-zero .
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The visibility factor based model has its merits, but we find that the assumptio
n of status being derived from 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

futile
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 items is too strong for an empirical study.
 The futility assumption makes particularly less sense in the developing
 world 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "UstunerHolt2010"

\end_inset

 where there are far fewer exclusive conspicuous items.
 The empirical classification of 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

status-items
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is also fraught with problems (escaped only through a consumer survey of
 one's own) - as an item both provides status advantages and advantages
 through quality of consumption.
 Instead of deciding on a crisp boundary between visible and non-visible
 utilities, our model maintains that both quality (signaling elitism) and
 asset ownership (signaling that it'll take longer for others to acquire
 a particular costly asset) contribute to status.
 The model doesn't treat status consumption as futile - instead it relates
 all status-related consumption with perceptions of social mobility.
 To extend a theory to the developing economies or to lower and lower-middle
 classes in the developed world, we believe it is necessary to relieve the
 assumption that conspicuous items are futile (see Ustuner et al 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "UstunerHolt2010"

\end_inset

 for difficulties in extending the literature on developed countries on
 conspicuous consumption to the developing world).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An econometric model for status-consumption is thus developed with the assertion
 that status consumption offers no advantage to a rational consumer except
 through a promise or belief of social mobility.
 This is similar to models of myopic behaviour in the literature on demand
 (See Shefrin-Thaler
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ShefrinThaler1988"

\end_inset

 and Muellbauer
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "MuellbauerRationalityMyopia1988."

\end_inset

).
 In our extension of the model, status-related consumption is viewed as
 a contribution to the expectation of status promotion through consumption.
 In the empirical study taken in the current chapter, we look at the choice
 of quality vs accumulation of assets.
 In the further substantiation of the model in an intertemporal substitution
 setting, we include probabilities of asset ownership in the measure of
 status consumption across countries of disparate economic conditions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The assets-and-quality-based status model we propose also helps deconstruct
 the role of social identity as a vehicle of status.
 While identities are considered extremely important for status in many
 studies in the developing as well as the developed countries (see Chao
 et al.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Chao1998"

\end_inset

, Charles et al.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "CharlesHurstRace"

\end_inset

, Omori et al.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "OmoriSmithVisRace"

\end_inset

 and Khamis et al.
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ZahraIndia"

\end_inset

), we believe that the difference in assets owned by the identities over
 time can explain how identities carry status across different countries.
 In terms of the model, an identity (religious, racial etc.) carries status
 only through a history of past asset ownership and persistent-high quality
 consumption - a criterion that allows us to quantify the role of identity
 in status.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is worth emphasising that visibility is not to be discarded in the model.
 Our contention is only that visibility provides a part of status consumption.
 By means of an analogy, let's consider how status is signalled through
 car ownership.
 The significance of visible consumption might tell us that consumers pay
 more attention to outward appearance of the car (the body work, paint,
 rims etc.) rather than the interior (engine cleaning, quality of tyres etc.).
 However, if we were to study the signaling through car ownership in the
 urban and rural areas, we would have to see primarily - i) the constraints
 on occupation and income that exist in the respective areas and ii)) the
 price differences in the cars being sold in the market.
 In our original problem of status consumption, while it is true that individual
s spend more on their outward appearances (despite controlling for everything
 else like occupation, income), visible consumption is not all what status
 consumption comprises of (see the Figure and Eastman 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Eastman1999"

\end_inset

 for the terminology around status consumption).
 Visibility is modeled as the order of weights of categories in the model.
 In the different categories of consumption items we identify, we assume
 that the consumption is weighted according to a preference order over categorie
s - a consumer could get more status utility from transport - as an example
 - than from food or vice versa.
 In the Tanzanian LSMS data, for example, we identify six categories - Food,
 Energy, Transport, Personal Care, Social Functions and Housing/Land - where
 visibility doesn't have much of a role to play within each of the category
 even though the consumers may consider one category more visible than the
 other.
 An order of visibility exists for the identified categories but not for
 items within the category.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
MODEL
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At the first-stage of the model, we use the simple-repackaging approach
 for every category.
 Based on the model we propose, we are interested in the distribution of
 the quality of consumption and the ownership of assets throughout the populatio
n.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We rely on the price of an item relative to its cheaper substitutes for
 the same functional utility.
 Except for the order of categories (food, transport), what constitutes
 status consumption - is quality and permanent assets within each category
 (see Corneo et al 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "corneo_snobbism"

\end_inset

 and Coleman
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "ColemanSocialTheory1990"

\end_inset

 - where the case for a ranking order of status is motivated).
 Apart from income and education (which can be seen as longer term assets),
 the status obtained is the aggregate of quality and asset possession.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The status items can exist in every category and they are not assumed to
 be either equivalent or interchangeable.
 The weight the consumer puts on the quality in each category ( i.e.
 the portion of total expenditure spent on the expensive non-durable consumption
) varies for every category - forming a distribution of weights that varies
 for every individual depending on her needs and current status.
 This distribution of expensive nondurable consumption however changes -
 as the individuals acquire assets and spend on upkeep and maintenance costs
 for assets or as they give up on hopes on acquiring costlier assets.
 It is assumed that a consumer would not sacrifice needs to purchase quality
 (there is no sufficient evidence of that happening).
 Therefore a rise in expensive nondurable consumption must come either from
 an increase in income or from depletion of savings (sale of assets).
 Likewise a drop in expensive non-durable consumption must be due to purchase
 of assets, addressing of more urgent needs or a drop in income.
 All rational consumers hope to increase their social status through consumption
 as they increase their utility in their lifetime.
 Therefore either asset ownership or quality consumption is attempted at
 all times.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The measurement of status as a vector of income, education, region (locality,
 neighborhood) and assets - is based on the definition of socio-economic
 status (SES) used in the research in sociological and health sciences.
 Since income and education are fixed in the short-run,, what changes most
 often is the acquisition of assets that are available in the market if
 the needs of the consumer haven't changed.
 Whenever assets are purchased, the consumer must undergo a change in the
 weight of the quality in the consumption categories if i) her needs (including
 status needs) haven't changed (status can only be indicated through asset
 ownership or quality) and ii) if she is not saving for another asset (the
 consumer is more likely to spend on quality if she doesn't have more assets
 planned to purchase in the future).
 We assume that except for the change brought about by assets or needs,
 a consumer doesn't change her taste in status items i.e.
 she has a fixed allocation of how much status she ought to derive from
 every category of consumption.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While we identify the six categories in the data from consumption survey,
 we also recognise that quality variation doesn't always exist in the market
 for every category.
 For example, in Tanzania - the car rental market seems small and the variation
 in the quality of cars being sold may be smaller than in a typical city
 in the developed world.
 When quality variation is not observed, only the relevant assets in a category
 can bring status.
 If status needs are fixed over short-term, then the unavailability of the
 quality variation in the category would either increase the savings for
 the next available asset in the category or increase the quality consumption
 in some other category (assuming status needs remain the same).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To illustrate this substitution with an example, consider a middle-income
 family that cuts down on expenses (due to loss of income) by moving to
 a cheaper area where the rents are lower but the restaurants are fewer.
 The consumption on fine-dining options - which signaled status and improved
 self-image - can no longer take place - so the consumption would either
 shift to saving for a better car (asset) or improve quality in some other
 category (better jewelry, better schooling for kids etc.) - assuming the
 needs of the family haven't changed (including the status needs).
 The difference between needs and status-needs is not a concern for this
 model - as it only observes the differences between high-price and low-price
 consumption in the same category and assumes that the essential needs are
 independent of the wealth of the consumer.
 In the particular example, needs for the family can be proxied with the
 number of family members.
 Also, for the purposes of the model, the difference between status of a
 rich and a poor family is not through disparate educational needs of the
 children but through a more general need to maintain status across all
 categories.
 This is the aggregate sense of status derived by all categories - and is
 driven by wealth and income - rather than high-class or low-class needs
 - as the model views all status needs either as expensive non-durable consumpti
on or asset possession.
 This substitution in the model between quality and asset possession is
 driven by the prices of assets and that of quality alone.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To specify the status utility - which depends on both on expensive non-durable
 consumption (ENDC) and possession of assets (POA)) status.
 , status doesn't require quality consumption to matter over the long-run.
 Quality consumption can indicate the net asset worth and the expectations
 for future social mobility - but it is only observed as the inertia in
 the selection of weights for quality in every category - without influencing
 status directly.
 A consumer sets her weight on status quality based on her perception of
 status - but the real changes to status are brought about only through
 assets (which are one of the factors of change in weights - by definition)
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Note that weights on quality is not a category - and every weight on quality
 is different from weight in every category.
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 Whether the consumer actually achieves the planned goals for asset purchase
 over or not is an issue we deal with in a later empirical analysis.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{alignat*}{1}
u & =\upsilon(w,A)
\end{alignat*}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are two important assumptions in the model.
 First, for simplicity, we assume that every category is dominated by assets
 or by nondurable consumption.
 Assets in this sense are always more expensive than the higher quality
 non-durable consumption.
 This gets around the issue that we effectively ignore the quality differences
 in assets when assuming high-quality non-durable consumption dominates
 in a category.
 Empirically, this assumption is not as problematic - since there are no
 assets in the food category (or energy) that could matter for status while
 the quality consumption in housing is made irrelevant by high (relative)
 price of housing.
 This is not to say that a model with quality variation amongst assets is
 not possible (a consumer can choose between types of housing for example)
 - but the assumption would need to be relived if quality-variation amongst
 assets was to be considered.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the model of asset and quality for status, the asset purchase has a more
 immediate impact on the status than a sudden increase in quality.
 High-quality consumption and purchase of assets thus reflect the short-term
 and long-term status needs of the consumer.
 The superior quality is enough for an item to become a luxury (as we outline
 with a rudimentary Stone Geary model).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
DATA
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We look at the consumption in Tanzania and compare it with South Africa
 - which may be more socially unequal but is an overall less poor country.
 A country like Tanzania is likely to have more economic inequality and
 less development of common services compared to South Africa.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Descriptive statistics on the Tanzanian data are then presented.
 We focus on food expenditure - which is recorded with a greater level of
 detail than other expenditures.
 As market prices are recorded for food items, we check how the higher budget
 shares are associated with choice of higher price items.
 We find that the consumption of highest prices items doesn't always result
 in higher budget shares.
 Tea and coffee don't form the highest budget shares (while they are expensive).
 Items that are of high price and have low budget shares while have cheaper
 substitutes in the market do qualify for the expensive non-durable consumption
 criteria for quality.
 Other descriptive statistics measure, e.g.
 the skewnesss of total expenditure on the item can also hint whether only
 a small proportion of population gets to spend more on the item.
 Noticeably, the budget share on skin-cream etc.
 - which we may have normally associated with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

visible
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 consumption - is quite low.
 The variance on the consumption of skin-cream is in fact lower than that
 for bread or milk.
 The budget shares for cigarettes seem quite high (and quite skewed) - however,
 since there are no cheaper substitutes available we don't consider cigarettes
 as part of status consumption.
 Although the descriptive statistics seem to confirm the heuristic that
 amongst many substitutable items, the distribution of expensive varieties
 is more likely to be skewed, it is worth emphasising that skewness or mean-cost
 - is not to be used as a criteria to pick items for status consumption.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When comparing a developing economy with a developed economy, one would
 always find the consumption items in the developed world that have no equivalen
t in the developing country.
 For example, while comparing the Tanzanian data with the South African
 survey (IES), we do not find holiday expenses and car rental in the Tanzanian
 LSMS survey.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Further, the partition of certain categories is of particular significance
 to our analysis.
 The simple repackaging model requires that the quality variants of an item
 are perfect substitutes.
 We therefore make sure that only the variants of an item are grouped into
 perfect substitutes.
 In food, we put goat and meat in the same group - but not tea and coffee
 - because there is little sense in substituting.
 The categories are divided so that demand can be considered separable but
 and lumped together when they are closed substitutes.
 Instead of considering beef, pork and goat as varieties of meat - we lump
 them together as high price sources of protein - a step performed primarily
 to observe the effect of switching to pricier sources of protein (rather
 than pricier sources of meat).
 Similarly, when analysing holiday expenses in South African data (IES),
 we don't distinguish between expensive holidays and cheaper holidays -
 but count expenditure on holidays as expensive non-durable consumption
 under entertainment/personal-care.
 Instead of a cheaper holiday, we consider measure of the expenditure on
 holiday.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We refrain from using detailed price of assets purchased (available in the
 Tanzanian data for 2012) - since recording of assets is different in SA
 IES and TNZ LSMS surveys.
 More particularly, the expenditure on furniture and other assets is a diary
 expenditure in the SA IES data while the assets are recorded separately
 as a recall in the Tanzanian LSMS.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While we are interested in studying the effect of ethnicity, but given the
 different make-up of the two countries, the data for ethnicity is not comaprabl
e either -SA IES records race, the LSMS records religion and native-language.
 The social identity data can thus only be only be used for studying segmentatio
n of demand within each economy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Notice that the recall method is particularly volatile in a developing country
 where regular payment setups are hardly a norm.
 We must be careful therefore with interpreting differences in the budget
 share over snapshots (2008,2010 and 2012) for a particular household -
 as the household may not have expenditures in all three instances of the
 survey.
 For cases such as electricity in Tanzania, we in fact find the survey field
 for 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

main lighting fuel
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 more reliable for the test of electricity consumption than the last expenditure
 on electricity (note that kerosene is much cheaper than electricity in
 Tanzania).
 Such matters can be made worse in cases of expenditure where seasonality
 (time of the year) is also an important factor.
 To address the issue, therefore, we are careful not to draw any conclusions
 from a household's expenditure over the time-series (i.e.
 survey snapshots in 2008, 2010 and 2012) - but rely on the average expenditure
 over a collection of households (in a particular region etc.).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
RESULTS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of econometric analysis is to see how long-term status needs of
 the consumers - fulfilled with purchase of assets - a change that translates
 into an upward movement in status in our model - relate with the short-term
 needs fulfilled with expensive non-durable consumption.
 Much the way we were wary of claiming that consumption on items indicates
 perception of status hierarchies, we don't claim that the observed social
 mobility - recorded in this way - serves as a measure of how status is
 perceived in society.
 We compare the variation in the expensive non-durable consumption (ENDC)
 across occupation ranks, education and the assets owned across the two
 countries (see quantile regression results).
 We also inspect how the expenditure on purchase of permanent assets vs
 non-durable consumption differs amongst the identified social identities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our model doesn't require that a consumer purchases a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

composite item
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of quality (see Deaton 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "DeatonQualityQuantityVariation,DeatonSurveyElasticities"

\end_inset

).
 Instead, we believe that quality is a concern for the researcher and not
 for the consumer - who merely exercises her choice given the set of products
 available in the market for given prices (see the clarification from Nelson
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "NelsonQualityQuantity"

\end_inset

).
 Since status would always be priced in the market, a status item would
 be always more expensive than the rest of the items which provide the same
 functionality (see Chao et al
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Chao1998"

\end_inset

 for substantiation of this argument).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the econometric methods, it has been demonstrated in the literature
 that additive functions are not enough for substitutability (see Deaton
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "DeatonEconConsumer"

\end_inset

).
 We use the dual-approach - most famously described in the AIDS method -
 and use a simple formulation of the cost-function to understand how a constrain
ed regression over the cross-section can tell us about the consumption across
 the population of consumers.
 Our conclusions rely on the elasticities obtained in this manner.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is clear that the medium assets are limited to the cities - and the household
s in the rural areas miss out on ownership of these assets.
 This corresponds to major differences in the life-styles between rural
 and urban areas in the developing countries.
 There are less opportunities for expensive non-durable consumption in the
 rural parts of Tanzania - except for marriage - where the expenditure seems
 proportionally high.
 The status is more likely to be derived from assets in the rural areas
 - compared to a more advanced economy such as that of South Africa.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The effect of social identities and factors such as multiple wives are issues
 that we haven't covered - since a valid comparison of such social factors
 between the countries is out of scope of our study.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing single
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "C:/local_files/research/africa_attitudes"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
