#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lscape}
\usepackage{xparse}
\usepackage{lscape}
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{bbm}

\usepackage{natbib}
\usepackage{color, colortbl}
\usepackage[first=0,last=9]{lcg}
\usepackage[left,modulo]{lineno}

\usepackage{soul}

\usepackage[section]{placeins}

\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{sectsty}


\tolerance=1
\emergencystretch=\maxdimen
\hyphenpenalty=10000
\hbadness=10000

\definecolor{Gray}{gray}{0.9}
\definecolor{LightCyan}{rgb}{0.88,1,1}
\newcommand{\ra}{\rand0.\arabic{rand}}

\newcommand{\hly}[1]{{\sethlcolor{yellow}\hl{#1}}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
theorems-ams-extended
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "tgtermes" "Spectral Medium"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2.5cm
\headsep 2.5cm
\columnsep 1.4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Effects of wealth and social factors on consumption in sub-Saharan Africa
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

%[Presented order of chapter is the same as how they have been named]
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consumption has been discussed for a long time.
 A good treatment is offered by 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "DeatonEconConsumer"
literal "false"

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The problem has been coming up with models that make econometric sense as
 well as theoretical sense.
 it is easy to continue with intuition without paying due importance to
 what substitution means and the axioms it results in.
 A major breakthrough is through cost-function theory that .
 There are limits to how much of this is possible - particularly in discrete
 considerations.
 This is where discrete models have resorted to simulation methods.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A recurring issue is that of effect of income inequality on consumption-
 a task hampered by lack of detailed data.
 Using LSMS, we address this issue - with the survey's detailed reports
 on assets owned.
 Even though the severe measurement errors in panel recording of owned assets,
 limit our anlaysis of substitution between asset purchases and non-durable
 consumption, the availability of assets does allow us to understand cross-secti
onal effects of having assets in great detail.
 This is what motivates us to understand consumption for food in the first
 chapter.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fundamental approach in the first chapter uses a cost-functions formulation
 with a particular focus on variation in quality - which is useful in understand
ing the role of SES in nutrition.
 This problem is extremely relevant for health and nutritional policy.
 As we find out, inequality does have a significant influence on the quality
 consumed.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the literature on income inequalities, empirical literature has focused
 on demand for the education - the only consumption that is meant to change
 income inequality over time.
 With immense focus on education in the region, it is interesting if the
 income disparities influencing expenditure on education are local or wider.
 In other words, we are interested in understanding if the differences in
 income or wealth show as wealth levels or are more often segregated across
 wider differences in sub-Saharan Africa.
 To understand the role of relative disparities in income better on education,
 the education expenses are compared for two countries in sub-Saharan Africa.
 The countries have different levels of ownership and urbanisation levels.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The accumulation of assets forms a particular notion of urbanisation level
 - which gets around the issue of wide-demarcation of rural and urban areas
 in the survey.
 With the use of physical access to education, we see whether the concentration
 of assets does have an influence or not.
 The channels through which this may be possible are many.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At a theoretical level, the improvement in classes etc.
 is a discrete consumption.
 The influence of social factors - the effects of social class or a regional
 or socio-cultural identity are also more likely to be discrete.
 This motivates the role of consumption in status comparisons - by considering
 an environment of socio-economic disparities that can be viewed as income
 bands which the consumer transition through.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Chapters Outline
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first chapter focuses on the disparities in quality that are influence
 by the environment of consumption.
 Many studies have highlighted a struggle in achieving food quality (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "MastersMalawiFoodQuality2021,MastersMeasuringNutritiousDietsAffordabilityAfrica2018"
literal "false"

\end_inset

).
 The cost of meeting the diet diversity based on nutritional inputs fluctuates
 seasonally (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "MastersMeasuringNutritiousDietsAffordabilityAfrica2018"
literal "false"

\end_inset

).
 Empirical studies use the sensitivity with respect to a minimum price in
 particular nutritional categories - an approach we follow in the chapter.
 To understand the role of disparities in assets, we consider Tanzania as
 the price of food quality is fluctuates in the country (
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "MastersMeasuringNutritiousDietsAffordabilityAfrica2018"
literal "false"

\end_inset

) and the country also shows extreme disparities in assets exist.
 The two factors allow us to explore the role wealth and income - which
 are likely to have a strong effect on substitution across multiple categories
 in consumption.
 We take particular care to include prices observed in the market - which
 are not always paid their due attention in the literature.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We discuss the interesting find that in addition to the role of household
 net-worth (which we measure with the total expenditure and with the total
 assets value), the urban environments - particularly those with access
 to electricity - have a significant role to play on the quality of food
 consumed in Tanzania.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To investigate the theoretical basis for education ...
 The second chapter discusses a discrete approach to intertemporal substitution
 problem by considering distinct income bands which a consumer can be.
 The consumption - seen as investments such as education - are continuous
 but the outcome as a promotion from a lower income band to a higher income
 band as well as the demotion from a higher income band to a lower income
 band is discrete.
 We then discuss the implications of a long-term equilibrium on the probability
 functions thus defined.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
btprint "btPrintCited"
bibfiles "C:/local_files/research/africa_attitudes"
options "authordate4"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
