#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{lscape}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 1
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\headheight 2cm
\headsep 2cm
\columnsep 1.4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part*
Quality of Consumption - Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Demand studies in the developing world often work with data that is much
 sparser and has overall less details on the individual households.
 Current surveys mitigate many such issues - but the problems that arise
 out of non-uniform institutions themselves make the standardisation of
 data across the developing countries rather challenging.
 Studies of quality have therefore often limited themselves to food where
 the measurement of quality is independent of consumed brand or type - details
 that are often not recorded in a typical consumer survey.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the current study, we quantify the choice of quality in the developing
 world.
 Instead of focusing on food quality alone, we observe the effect of vast
 differences in life-style that living in urban vs rural areas would bring
 to the consumer in a developing country.
 Further, we comment on how the overall quality may vary with economic inequalit
ies across multiple economies as the consumer spreads the expenditure on
 quality across commodity groups.
 This may provide us a better understanding of how quality of consumption
 changes in response to vast economic changes such as urban developments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To observe the quality of consumption with respect to the income inequalities
 across the developing countries, we motivate a model for substitution between
 a consumer's long-term needs (fulfilled with ownership of assets or improvement
 of income) and the consumer's short-term needs (fulfilled with improved
 quality of consumption).
 It is worth emphasising that we differentiate between quality consumption
 and conspicuous consumption - the latter often implying the exclusive consumpti
on by the rich in a society.
 A comparison of high quality consumption in the different categories of
 a typical demand survey covers the quality concerns for a larger section
 of the population and views status needs of the consumer as part of her
 more general long-term utility.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We measure the quality in a category (food, energy etc.) using the price
 of the variants in the category simply by classifying high-quality (expensive)
 items apart from their cheaper substitutes.
 The socio-economic standing of the consumer is measured using a vector
 of occupation, education and region/locality/neighborhood.
 The asset ownership and quality consumption both contribute to long-term
 utility and hence status of the consumer.
 This is unlike many studies in consumption - where status is fixed in the
 short-run and the rational consumer, knowing all about her future plans
 is not expected to engage in any status related consumption at all.
 If there is nothing to be gained by conspicuous consumption (i.e.
 Veblen's claim of futility of conspicuous consumption), then there is no
 way for the rational consumer to derive any utility from it.
 The model based on short-term quality advantages and long-term asset ownership
 relates consumption with the perceptions of social mobility.
 We claim that the only advantage status consumption may offer to a rational
 consumer would be through a promise (or a belief) of social mobility.
 The idea itself dates back least as far back as Adam Smith 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "SmithMoralSentiments"

\end_inset

 and has been re-evaluated by modern economists in the recent decades 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "FrankPond,GalbraithAffluent,GalbraithEssential,HirschSocialLimits"

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Noticing the separable categories of consumption items, we model the distributio
n of quality and asset ownership amongst the categories.
 If prices are assumed to the stable, the distribution of expensive non-durable
 consumption (ENDC) may change when the individuals acquire assets and spend
 on upkeep/maintenance costs for assets or as they give up on hopes on acquiring
 costlier assets (possibly due to other needs).
 Since consumers don't sacrifice needs for the sake of quality, a rise in
 ENDC must come either from an increase in income or from depletion of savings
 (when needs are fixed).
 Likewise, a drop in ENDC must be due to purchase of assets or a drop in
 income (fixed needs).
 Introducing the price changes, the consumer also considers the price of
 quality in each category.
 Measured with a simple-repackaging model (i.e.
 treating a higher quality item as higher units of the cheaper variant),
 the quality in food may be cheaper than the quality in transport or vice
 versa.
 Faced with a price rise, the choice the consumer faces in cutting down
 quality amongst the categories is driven by her i) habits (myopia) ii)
 non-status needs (number of family members, age etc.) ii) status needs (which
 in-turn depend on the status that the consumer already has - i.e.
 her self-image including the assets owned) and iii) the order of category.
 The consumer is meant to have a pecking order of categories she wants to
 cut down quality on - an order that is determined by how she views her
 status.
 This is the only place where 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

visibility
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of consumption matters.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We make two further assumptions in the model.
 First, for simplicity, we assume that every category (food, energy, housing
 etc.) is dominated either by assets or by ENDC (but not both).
 Second, we assume that purchasing assets is always more expensive than
 engaging in ENDC.
 The second assumption gets around the issue that we effectively ignore
 the quality differences in assets when assuming that ENDC dominates in
 a category.
 Empirically, this assumption is not as problematic - since for example
 there are no assets in the food category (or energy) that could matter
 for status while the quality consumption in housing is made irrelevant
 by high (relative) price of housing.
 When quality variation is not observed, only the relevant assets in a category
 matter in the long-term.
 If status needs are fixed over short-term, then the unavailability of the
 quality variation in the category would either increase the savings for
 the next available asset in the category or increase the quality consumption
 in some other category (assuming status needs remain the same).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since status is aggregated from across the commodities, one cannot use the
 two-state budgeting model for status goods 
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
If price sensitivities and total expenditure sensitivities don't follow
 the same channel of communication in the two-state budgeting tree - then
 the necessary condition for two-stage separability is not met (see 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "PhilipsAppliedCons,DeatonEconConsumer"

\end_inset

).
 
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 A tree-like model can only be used if we model the discrete choice in 
 the pecking order of quality categories.
 Taking an easier approach with a simple-repackaging model for cross-sectional
 analysis in the current chapter, we consider a quality function 
\begin_inset Formula $h(\theta)$
\end_inset

 so that the cost-function of the category can be written in terms of the
 base-item (the cheapest variant in the category) 
\begin_inset Formula $\tilde{c}(u,p_{1},p_{2},...,\theta)=c(u,\frac{p_{1}}{h(\theta)},p_{2},...,1)$
\end_inset

 .
 This simply brings the quality-factors on the right hand side of the econometri
c equation 
\begin_inset Formula $w=\beta log(x)+log(h(\theta))+\epsilon$
\end_inset

.
 We view quality of significance only in food and energy.
 Housing, for example, doesn't have so much of quality consumption - as
 having a house dominates the effect of quality in the housing category.
 A cross-sectional analysis can tell us what effect having assets may have
 on quality consumption.
 A quantile regression can further explain how quality changes differ in
 the different income quantiles of the society.
 As we have not quantitatively specified the substitution between asset
 and quality in a more explicit model, we refrain from a time-series analysis
 of the asset vs quality substitution.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Notice that the model doesn't require that a consumer purchase a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

composite item
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 of quality (see Deaton 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "DeatonQualityQuantityVariation,DeatonSurveyElasticities"

\end_inset

).
 Instead, we believe that quality is a concern for the researcher and not
 for the consumer - who merely exercises her choice given the set of products
 available in the market for given prices (see the clarification from Nelson
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "NelsonQualityQuantity"

\end_inset

).
 Since status would always be priced in the market, a status item would
 be always more expensive than the rest of the items which provide the same
 functionality (see Chao et al
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Chao1998"

\end_inset

 for substantiation of this argument).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The results show that medium assets (TV, cable, appliances) seem limited
 to the cities - and the households in the rural areas miss out on ownership
 of these assets.
 In general, status is more likely to be derived from whatever is available
 as assets in the rural areas - compared to a more advanced economy such
 as that of South Africa.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing single
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "C:/local_files/research/africa_attitudes"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
