#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Abstract
Status competitions amongst workers often explain the income distribution
 better than the permanent income or productivity models.
 The current study looks for instances of status competitions within communities
 in developing countries, focusing on sub-Saharan African countries where
 recent large-scale urban migrations and proliferation of industrial products
 has occurred amidst social upheavals.
 The goal of this study is twofold.
 First, it comments on changes in status competitions in response to proliferati
on of industrial products, changing family characteristics, regional effects
 and social interaction levels.
 Second, it compares the effect of advertising and marketing on consumption
 in the developed world with the emergence of new social scarcities in the
 developed world - arguing that the socio-political environment of the developin
g world has done little to curtail or encourage status competitions at local
 levels.
 The study uses the framework and terminology of Fred Hirsch who had discussed
 the increasing effect of advertising and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

congestions
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 related to positional consumption in the post-war distribution of resources.
 The contention of the study is that physical scarcity in the developing
 countries does not rule out social scarcity and that the status competitions
 and positional consumption - which are identified by observed differences
 in prices in the study - must be considered for a better understanding
 of urban migration patterns and consumption pressures.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
