#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.5cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 3.5cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\headheight 3.5cm
\headsep 3.5cm
\footskip 3.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Statement of Purpose
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In 2007, when I was working in my first job at JP Morgan - I had been trained
 only to work on rational problems.
 I had been simulating air pollution at a lab before and my task at the
 bank was to improve the methods to calculate credit risk exposures for
 the firm's OTC portfolio.
 I was thrilled - to say the least - at the sophistication involved in what
 was seemingly an accounting activity.
 I worked with the firm for three years - and joined a trading desk soon
 afterwards.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would be grossly incorrect to say that trained as a scientist, I had
 quit the risk management division because I was tired of reading accounting
 rules.
 On the contrary, the experience had only made me learn more about humanities
 - particularly since my limited understanding of economics had often led
 me to a void.
 Reading the Basel III accord, for example, it occurred to me for the first
 time that such rules are written not to invent a new theory - but only
 in response to the kind of incidents we had talked about in our daily meetings.
 Having been presented the issues of risk management always as a rational
 problem seemed to have hindered my understanding of the largely human forces
 in an economy.
 Kant's claim that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

properly mathematical propositions are never empirical
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 had never made more sense to me until that point.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The curiosity drove me to work at trading desks on both sides of the Atlantic.
 During the time, the need to understand underlying economics and human
 factors in a primarily technical field - were fulfilled by reading and
 communicating with other teams.
 In the course of six years, I had indeed worked on many mathematical models
 and learned to quantitatively search for arbitrage opportunities in markets
 - but I couldn't have said that I had even appreciated economics so much.
 It was only last year in a class at London Business School on behavioural
 finance, that I came to realize the true scope of my work.
 It was after reading Adam Smith, Irving Fisher, Lord Keynes along with
 Max Weber, Karl Marx and David Graeber that I realized how fundamental
 societal insights are in what I had once viewed as a number-crunching task.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As a student of finance, I find that an understanding of our motives of
 making money can be as important as understanding the so-called economic
 conditions - which model our needs and rational expectations.
 This academic curiosity is what I intend to study in the Applied Psychology
 program at Royal Holloway College with.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The research focus of the college is particularly relevant to the interdisciplin
ary nature of such problems.
 My initial ideas for a study project are related to risk appetite in different
 social groups.
 I wish to test the whether an interest in trading and investments is sufficient
ly explained by the relative household income and juvenile skill-levels
 in mathematics.
 I wish to find whether socio-cultural background can have a significant
 statistical correlation with participation in financial industry, through
 interest in mathematics or the desire to make money.
 At this point, I only have empirical ideas on designing surveys for the
 network of investment professionals which I have access to and my knowledge
 of psychological issues concerning an education in mathematics or the research
 methods involved in parametrizing social motives is fairly elementary.
 With the program at Royal Holloway College, I hope to learn from related
 problems in the literature and from other individuals working on similar
 problems in social psychology.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As someone trained in mathematics and computer science, the framework of
 rationality continues to appeal to me, but that at the heart of it all,
 business is about human interactions - is a truth that I have realized
 only through practice.
 With the Applied Psychology program at Royal Holloway College, I hope to
 build upon this understanding, speed up some of my learnings and connect
 with the research community which I aspire to contribute to.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
