#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\topmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Center Footer
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
PhD (PT) Year 3 Status Report - May 2018 - Anurag Srivastava
\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
Status report at Year 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
At the end of the second year, an outline of the three chapters to be pursued
 were presented to the department .
 In this outline, the first chapter included the empirical view of status
 consumption in the sub-Saharan Africa; the second chapter attempted to
 develop a theory for status consumption that would allow a comparison of
 status consumption across developed and developing economies while the
 third (and the last) chapter outlined a behavioural experiment that would
 attempt to measure the association of status with purchases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
The structure of the chapters in the study has remained the same - but significa
nt parts of Chapter 1 and 2 have been reworked after noting that the link
 between empirical work and the outline of the theory in Chapter 2 had not
 been very clear in the report last year.
 The reason why this link was missing was that both Chapters 1 and 2 had
 been under progress at the time.
 A full empirical test of the elements of theory developed in the chapter
 2 may still appear somewhat ambitious, but the significant amount of work
 added to Chapter 1 now links with the claims of the theory relevant to
 cross-sectional data.
 Providing empirical methods for theoretical elements being a key part of
 our study,  we have focused on presenting empirical methods for budget
 analysis relevant to status consumption instead of expanding the theory
 outlined in Chapter 2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
To ensure the rigour of the work - the PhD candidate has taken to acquiring
 a deeper mathematical understanding of the mathematical methods in econometrics.
 The advisors have been notified of this intent and thus a few math courses
 were planned to be audited for this activity (
\shape italic
Functional Analysis
\shape default
 has been audited in 2018 and 
\shape italic
Measure Theory
\shape default
 may be taken up in due course).
 As planned in the year 2 report, the candidate was also engaged in the
 
\shape italic
Advanced Micreconomics
\shape default
 course - which allowed him to revise the basic Nash equilibrium concepts.
 The course being a preliminary one, he was also advised by Dr.
 Ferdinand Vieider to attend the 
\shape italic
Behavioural Economics 
\shape default
course in the subsequent semester.
 In light of the work done on empirical methods during the year 2017, advanced
 game theory is no longer a dependency for the empirical work to be used
 in Chapters 1 and 2.
 That said, the 
\shape italic
Behavioural Economics
\shape default
 course and the books recommended by Dr.
 Vieider are set to benefit the development of Chapter 3 in the near future.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
As part of the activity that was taken up to clarify Chapter 1 after Aug
 2017, it was found that the theory of selection of status items by the
 representative consumer was based on some heuristic arguments and suffered
 with the issue of circular definitions.
 It even appeared that the items of consumption that showed disparity amongst
 its consumers were simply declared as status items in the study.
 This seemed arbitrary and was thus deemed problematic.
 The discussant of the 2017 workshop (Dr.
 Minyan Zhu) in fact highlighted this problem as well and suggested that
 a selection model should be adopted to classify status providing goods.
 Since then, the methodology to define a status product (whose consumption
 is sought as a status providing product) has been refined.
 To conduct this refinement, an empirical understanding of the literature
 on demand analysis - particularly, the conditions that a demand function
 must fulfill - was acquired.
 By Dec 2017, separability of the utility function was found to be a key
 idea to base the notion of status consumption upon.
 In the current state of the report, the idea of separability aligns the
 model of status with both the literature on empirical work in visible consumpti
on and the immense literature on demand analysis.
 The selection approach suggested by the discussant in 2017 has also been
 included - as it is observed that many consumers don't have access to any
 items that may carry status.
 The writeup on Chapter 1 is currently under review and should benefit from
 the discussion in the Phd Workshop for 2018.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
Apart from the work done in Chapter 1, new opportunities in the theoretical
 work for Chapter 2 have been identified.
 A clarity on the link between empirical work and theory has helped in separatin
g out the data requirements for Chapter 1 and in planning the details of
 Chapter 2.
 At this point, the empirical work emanating from new directions in Chapter
 2 would rely on time-series data - an activity that would be taken up in
 the current year.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
It was also found that many ideas that seemed promising in the beginning
 were either no longer relevant or became encapsulated into other parts
 of the work.
 For example, the Chapters 1 and 2 had discussed the measures for bandgwagon
 effect in the Year 2 report but in the current year, these measures were
 discarded as irrelevant in a cross-sectional setting.
 The clarity to reject this effect was achieved only in the light of the
 separability based model that has been adopted in the Year 3.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
These developments in Chapter 1 and 2 have not been without problems.
 The unavailability of quantities recorded for all non-food expenditures
 has prevented us from comparing quantities consumed of similar items.
 Further, since the cost recorded for consumption is based on recall methods
 while the food items are recorded using the diary method, any claim of
 relative preference of categories must consider the measurement error arising
 out of this disparity.
 In general, any arguments that rely on the complete consumption basket,
 would suffer with the lack of availability of detailed microdata in sub-Saharan
 African countries.
 This is why methods for aggregation over consumption categories is critical
 to the current work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
If the current cross-sectional study in Chapter 1 looks nearly satisfactory,
 then the empirical methods for time-series version of the extended model
 of Chapter 2 should be finished in the next year.
 This may imply that the reverse game theory experiments planned in Chapter
 3 would require some work beyond Year 4.
 If we were compelled to finish the study by Year 4, then we may redefine
 the scope of the study after the Chapter 2 is finalised - so that a comparison
 between developed and developing countries can be pursued as a chapter
 in itself.
 At this point, the aim to finish the three chapters as outlined in the
 Year 2 report has not changed.
 An understanding of the inverse game theory acquired after taking the 
\shape italic
Behavioural Economics
\shape default
 course - may provide a better idea of the effort required to complete Chapter
 3 and help us with the planning the remaining work necessary for the last
 Chapter of the study.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
